THE WORLD AND CHINA 1 世界中国杂志


INTRODUCTION OF THE PUBLICATION 
China-World Magazine was founded 
in 2006 as a multilingual international 
magazine. 
世界中国杂志创建于2006年，为多语种国际刊物。
主要栏目
高端访问、大使访谈、中外建交、时事传真、国际友城、欧盟新闻、文化视野、各国风情、商
务平台、畅游天下、专题报道等。
Top Interviews, Ambassadors, Diplomatic Relations, News, Sister Cities, EU News, 
Cultural Perspective, Business Platform, Tourism, Special Reports. 
主要读者
外国驻华使领馆外交官、境内外政府官员、企业家、公商务旅行者等。
Major readers are foreign diplomats stationing in China, government officials at home 
and abroad, entrepreneurs, official and business travelers, etc. 
发行地点
1. 在中国境内：中央政府多个部委、多家企事业单位、贸促会（CCPIT）中国国际商会会员
驻华使领馆以及驻华国际机构。在境内多家商会及北京近五十家五星级酒店均可读到。
In China: The magazine can be found in many ministries of central government, many 
enterprises and public institutions, members of CCPIT China Chamber of International 
Commerce, embassies, headquarters of international organizations in China, business 
clubs and nearly 50 five star hotels as well. 
2. 在国外发行地有：布鲁塞尔、柏林、伊斯坦布尔、布达佩斯、莫斯科、圣彼得堡、迪拜国
际机场贵宾室以及国外旅行社、国外工商贸易协会等。
Internationally, it could be obtained in Brussels, Berlin, Istanbul, Budapest, Moscow, 
San Petersburg, Dubai International Airport's VIP room, foreign travel agencies, 
industry and trade associations, etc. 
3. 在多种中外经贸文化活动以及各国驻华使团活动中赠送发行。
The publication is given as a gift during all kinds of cultural and trade activities at home 
and abroad and during activities held by foreign embassies in China. 
原中国国务院副总理、全国人大副委员长邹家华
先生为本刊题词
本刊社长纳吉・麟女士向英国首相托尼・布莱尔先生介绍《世界中国》杂志，布莱尔先生为本刊题名
“The World and China” 
Epigraph by the former Vice Premier and Vice 
Chairman of National People’s Congress, Mr. 
JIahua Zhou 
Ms. Lin Nagy, president of the magazine is giving an introduction of the magazine to Mr. Tony Blair, 
former prime minister of Great Britain. Mr. Blair is giving a title to the magazine as "The World and 
China".

目录CONTENTS 
China-World Magazine was founded in 2006 as a multilingual international magazine. 
07 特别关注
欧盟-中国人权对话
“梦想中国”绘画大赛特等奖揭晓致
10 欧盟信息
第27届中欧经贸混委会会议
绿色增长使命
中欧联手打击假酒
专访林舜杰先生,中国国际商会秘书长
特访美猴王扮演者,章金莱先生
28 使馆之窗
阿根廷科技新闻发布会
匈牙利葡萄酒会
瑞典驻华大使馆举办国庆节活动
塞尔维亚电影展开幕
越南,没有忘记中国的友情
庆祝马达加斯加独立35周年
委内瑞拉独立宣言签署两百年零二周
年纪念招待会
巴哈马独立40周年招待会
立陶宛的双庆活动
厄瓜多尔国家周
您知道怎样穿和服吗? 
46 文化视野
用《三角号码字典》, 查字更简便
先辈的旗帜-中国70年前的缅甸远征军
52 畅游天下
七朝古都--开封
越南一瞥
杭州市民看匈牙利
62 艺术长廊
丰富多彩的儿童节
千古绝唱,水墨胡杨
俄罗斯画家作品展
16 大使访谈
专访克罗地亚大使
20 高端访谈
你知道我们吗? 
07 Special Attention to 
EU-China Dialogue on Human Rights 
"China in my Dreams" Painting Contest Grand Prize 
Announced 
10 EU Message 
The 27th EU-China Joint Committee was held in 
Beijing 
Mission for Green Growth 
EU and China Step Up Cooperation in Fighting 
Counterfeiting in Trade in Alcoholic Beverages 
16 Ambassador 
Interview with Ambassador of Croatia 
20 Top Interview 
Do you know about us? 
Interview wIth Mr. ShunjIe Lin, General Secretary of 
CCOLC 
He Got Yet Another Signature, UN Secretary 
General Ban Ki Moon Signed for Him 
PH.NG V.N DI.N VIêN .óNG VAI M. H.U 
V..NG- CH..NG KIM LAI (L.C TI.U LINH ..NG) 
28 Embassy 
Argentine Minister of Science and Technology 
Holds a Press Conference 
Wine Promotion Event at the Hungarian Embassy 
Swedish National Day 
Serbian Film Festival Opens 
VI.T nAM KH.nG qUên TìnH B.nG H.U C.A 
TRUnG qU.C 
Célébrez le 35e anniversaire de l'indépendance de 
Madagascar 
Recepción para el 202 Aniversario de la Firmacion 
de la Declaración de la Independencia de 
Venezuela. 
Celebrating 40 Years of Independence of the 
Bahamas 
Lithuania’s Double Celebration 
Ecuador's National Week 
着物の着方をご存知でしょう? 
46 Cultural Perspective 
The “Three Corner Number Dictionary” Makes 
Readers More Convenient to Inquire Chinese 
Ancestors banner - China 70 years ago, Burma 
Expeditionary Force 
52 Tourism 
Kaifeng: An Ancient Capital of Seven Dynasties 
M.t thoáng vi.t nam 
Magyarország Hangzhouban 
62 Art Gallery 
Colorful Children's Day 
A Master of Wash Paintings 
Выставка работ русского художника 
Ljiljana Burcul Lilly 
72 Moments through the Lenses of 
Diplomats 
76 Business Platform 
újabb magyar-kínai testvérvárosi kapcsolat 
6th China Opening-up Forum 
Former Prime Minister of Hungary, Mr. Medgyessy 
attended the ZJITS 
84 Chinese And Foreign Food 
Cold Beet Soup 
92 Special Reports 
Inject “Youthful Cell”, Activate Youth Regeneration 
Power 
莉吉嘉娜・伯克尔・丽莉
72 使节镜头的瞬间
76 商务平台
中匈又一个友好城市对接 
匈牙利前总理彼得 . 麦杰希先生出席
“浙洽会” 
84 中外美食
立陶宛美食
92 专题报道
注入“青春细胞”,激活年轻再生力量

Founder 创刊人
Advisory Board Chairmen 顾问委员会主席
Editor-in-Chief 社长 
Vice Editor-in-Chief 副总编
Arts Editor 美术编辑 
English Editor 采访编辑
Photo Editing 图片编辑
特约记者 
Distributing Manager 发行监管
Translation 翻译
Marketing Director 匈牙利市场总监
外联
Headquarters Address 总部地址
Beijing Office 北京办公室
Postal Code 邮政编码
Phone(Fax)联系电话
Website 网址 
Mail 邮件
License no. 许可证号
Lapigazgató 
F.szerkeszt. 
A szerkeszt.ség címe 
Tel/fax 
Web 
E-mail 
Authorisation 主管
Supervisor 主办
Supported by 支持单位
Sponsor 赞助单位
Legal Consultation Unit 法律顾问
Free of Charge Magazine 
纳吉・麟 Lin Nagy 
迈杰希・彼得（匈牙利共和国前总理） 
Peter Medgyessy（Former Prime Minister of Hungary） 
邹家华（中国前副总理） 
Zou Jiahua (Former Vice Prime Minister of P.R.China) 
纳吉・麟 Lin Nagy 
李长德 Li Changde 
郑朝亮 Zheng Chaoliang 
莫尼卡 Mónika Takács 
凯瑟琳 Catherine 
魏云飞 Wei Yunfei 陈斐然 Chen Feiran 
方毓强 Fang Yuqiang 
王佳 Wang Jia 
北京“随你译”翻译公司
迪奇托马斯（匈牙利）Tirts Tamás 
张晓青 Zhang Xiaoqing 潘晓 Pan Xiao 
张兰群 Zhang Lanqun 田华 Tian Hua 
刘安胜 Liu Ansheng 余波 Yu Bo 
匈牙利，布达佩斯 Budapest, Kiskocsag u.19 邮编：1237 
电话： +36309606772 Nagy Szilvia 
北京朝阳区秀水街1号建国门外交公寓1号院1号楼5单元021室
100600 
0086-1087706399 
www.shijiezhongguo.com 
shijiezhongguo888@126.com 
2.9/1169-1/2006-HU ISSN 1787-7199 
Szilvia Nagy 
Nagy Lin 
1237, Kiskocsag u, 19 
0036-30-9606772 
www.shijiezhongguo.com 
shijiezhongguo888@126.com 
匈牙利文化部/中国新闻社
The China News Service 
世界华文媒体联盟
The World Chinese Media Alliance 
匈牙利丝绸之路出版社有限公司
Hungary Silk Road Press Co. Ltd. 
匈牙利驻华大使馆
Embassy of Hungary 
中国对外友好协会中匈分会
China Foreign Friendship Association Hungary Association 
大新华航空公司 Grand China Air 
宋秀娟Song Xiujuan 李志东 Li Zhidong 
赠阅
程涛（中国外交学会副会长）Cheng Tao 
高博（匈牙利驻中国大使馆前副馆长）Gábor Nagy 
周晓云（贵州省省委宣传部副部长）Zhou Xiaoyun 
朱祖寿（中国对外友好协会中匈分会会长）Zhu Zushou 
卞洪登（中国房地产协会副会长）Bian Hongdeng 
释延阔法师（澳大利亚少林寺方丈）Shi Yankuo 
王治国(世界中国理事会理事长)Wang Zhiguo 
黄金雄(常务副理事长) Huang Jinxiong 
君枰 (秘书长)Jun Ping 
Advisers 顾问
Council 理事会
欧盟-中国人权对话
EU-China Dialogue on Human Rights 
2013年6月25日，欧洲联盟和中华人民共和国在中国贵州省贵阳
市举办了第32轮“欧盟-中国人权对话”。人权对话举行之前，对贵
州进行了实地考察，包括参观贵阳市的基督教堂及布依族人口占
97% 的偏坡村，考察旨在推动贵州环境司法的欧盟-中国环境治
理项目下属的一个地方合作伙伴项目，并与贵州省省长陈敏尔举行
了会谈。
欧盟的代表团由欧盟对外行动署东亚事务司司长萨巴蒂尔
（Gerhard Sabathil）带领，中方代表团由中华人民共和国外交部
国际司司长李军华带领。
对话在坦诚的氛围中开展。它为欧盟提供了一个契机，表达其对中
国正在发生的涉及少数民族和宗教群体的个人权利的关切，以及
对剥夺自由、刑事和行政处罚等的关切。欧盟也问及了迄今为止中
国为通过在1998年签署的《公民与政治权力国际公约》所采取的
措施，中国在2009年的普遍定期审查(UPR)时做出了早日通过该
公约的承诺。
中方也提出了一系列问题，其中包括少数民族在欧洲的待遇问题， 
包括罗姆人、穆斯林，以及涉及中国公民在一些欧盟成员国的具体
事件。中国还问及了金融危机对社会权力和经济权力的影响程度， 
包括获得医疗、教育和住房，以及加剧欧洲人的排外心理等方面。
紧随对话之后，中欧双方在贵阳首次召开了一个联合媒体见面会。
自1995年以来，欧盟-中国人权对话每年举行两次，也有过短时的
中断，欧盟希望本年度第二轮对话于2013年下半年在布鲁塞尔举
行。
On 25 June 2013, the European Union and the People's 
Republic of China held the 32nd round of the "EU-China Dialogue 
on Human Rights" in Guiyang (Guizhou), China. The Human Rights 
Dialogue was preceded by a field trip in Guizhou, which included a 
visit to Guiyang City Christian Church, Pianpo Village, where 97% 
of the population belongs to the Buyi ethnic group, and an EUChina 
Environmental Governance Project designed to increase 
environmental awareness for the people of Guizhou. There was 
also a meeting with the Governor of Guizhou province, Mr Chen 
Mingming. 
The EU delegation was led by Gerhard Sabathil, Director for 
East Asia and the Pacific in the EU's European External Action 
Service. The Chinese delegation was led by Li Junhua, Director 
General for International Organisations and Conferences, Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China. 
The dialogue provided an opportunity for the EU to express 
concerns about what is happening in China regarding the rights of 
persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities; deprivation of 
liberty, criminal and administrative punishment. The EU also asked 
about the measures taken so far by China to ratify the International 
Covenant for Civil and Political Rights, signed in 1998, in view of 
China's undertaking made during the 2009 Universal Periodic 
Review (UPR) to ratify the Covenant at an early date. 
For its part, the Chinese side raised a number of questions, 
including the treatment of minorities in Europe, including Roma 
people and Muslims, as well as specific incidents involving Chinese 
nationals in some EU Member States. China also asked questions 
about the extent to which the financial crisis is affecting social and 
economic rights, including access to healthcare, education and 
housing, and exacerbating xenophobia in Europe. 
For the first time, a joint Press Briefing was organized 
immediately after the dialogue in Guiyang. 
As the EU-China Human Rights Dialogue has, with short 
interruptions, taken place twice annually since 1995, the EU 
expects the second annual round of the Dialogue to be held in 
Europe in the second half of 2013.

08 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 09 
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO 特别关注 
“梦想中国”绘画大赛特等奖揭晓
"China in my Dreams" Painting Contest Grand Prize Announced 
由欧盟驻华代表团主办，《世界中国》杂志社
承办的“梦想中国”，参赛作品均来自欧盟学校的
孩子们，在欧盟的学校共有3100多孩子， 从小学
到中学。 超过了10%的孩子们参加了这次活动。 
一等奖的获得者有42个孩子， 从他们中经过中外
评委的共同评选， 选出3个特等奖作为孩子们的
代表来中国， 体会， 感受中国的一切。
The "China in my Dreams" competition 
was organized by the EU Delegation and "The 
World and China" Magazine. Participants of the 
competition were schoolchildren of the European 
Union School in Brussels. Around 10% of the 
3100 pupils of the school have submitted their 
works. 42 of them were selected for first prize, 
the 3 top winners will have a chance to come to 
China and see the country for themselves. 
Benjamin Lancry 
Emma Pascal 
Piona Hotakainen 

10 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 11 
EU MESSAGE 欧盟信息 
欧盟贸易委员德古赫特6月21日与中国商务部部长高虎城一同出席在北京举办的第27届中欧经贸混委会会议。
中欧经贸混委会每年举行一次，中欧双方将在会上就贸易和投资关系展开讨论。
21 June, EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht participated at the 27th EU-China Joint Committee meeting with Chinese Minister of Commerce Gao Hucheng. 
The Joint Committee meeting is the annual forum for the EU and China to discuss their trade and investment relations. The talks focused on the preparations for the launch of negotiations for a bilateral investment agreement, market access barriers 
in a number of sectors, licensing and market access issues in the area of financial and telecommunication services, and ways to 
improve the enforcement of, and cooperation on intellectual property rights. In addition the Joint Committee provided an opportunity 
to take stock of developments in Geneva as both sides prepare for the WTO Ministerial in Bali later this year. 
The solar panel dispute was not discussed within the framework of this meeting, 
此次会谈的重点是双边投资协定谈判的筹备工作、一些领域的市场准入壁垒、金融和电信服务领域的许可和市场准入问题，以及如何
提高在知识产权方面的执法和合作。此外，鉴于中欧双方在为今年晚些时候在巴厘召开的世贸组织部长级会议作准备，混委会将为双方提
供一个盘点日内瓦相关工作进展的机会。 
太阳能电池板问题没有在此次会议框架内进行讨论。
Photo: Olli Geibel 第27届中欧经贸混委会会议
The 27th EU-China Joint Committee was held in Beijing

12 THE WORLD AND CHINA 
EU MESSAGE 欧盟信息 
THE WORLD AND CHINA 13 
mission FOR green growth 
绿色增长使命
欧盟外交与安全政策高级代表兼欧洲委员会副主席凯瑟琳.阿
什顿的发言人今天发表了如下讲话： 
7月19日正在中国访问的欧盟委员会副主席兼企业和工业事务委员安东尼奥・塔亚尼以及欧盟环境事务委员亚内兹・波托奇尼克在欧
盟驻华代表团召开记者会。 
塔亚尼在与国务院副总理马凯、科技部部长万钢以及工业与
信息化部部长苗圩等官员会谈时都谈到欧洲的“绿色增长”。他表
示，欧盟和中国都把“可持续的增长”放在重要位置。欧中都致力
于在保持和改善各自环境的同时获得可持续发展。他说，“中国新
一届领导人非常重视环境保护。而欧洲在这方面有丰富的经验，我
们很愿意同中国一起分享。” 
“7月21日（星期日）晚中国西北地区甘肃省中部发生地震，造成严重的人员伤亡和财产损失，高级代表对地
震遇难者家属和中国人民表示最诚挚的慰问。 
“高级代表对在此次灾难中失去至亲至爱的人的悲痛感同身受，并对在灾难中受伤及遭受财产损失的人们
致以衷心的慰问。” 
波托奇尼克此次访华与中国环境保护部部长周生贤举行了欧中
第五次部长级环保事务会谈。他表示，双方就绿色经济、污染物控
制、国际合作以及汽车尾气排放等问题进行讨论。全球市场对于
绿色食品和绿色服务的年需求量目前预计达到1万亿欧元，而这一
数字将在2020年翻倍。可见，欧中在治污、环保以及节能减排等
领域合作空间广大。
图文：朝亮
Photo and Text: Charles 
Statement by the Spokesperson of EU 
High Representative Catherine Ashton on 
the earth quake in China 's Gansu province 
The spokesperson of Catherine Ashton, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice 
President of the Commission, issued the following statement on July 21: 
"The High Representative expresses sincere condolences to the families of the victims and the people of China for the loss of life 
and devastation caused by the earthquake that hit China's northwest central Gansu province the night of Sunday 21 July. 
"The High Representative shares the grief of all those who have lost loved ones and expresses her heartfelt sympathies to those 
who have been injured and suffered heavy material losses in this catastrophe."

14 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 15 
EU MESSAGE 欧盟信息 
EU and China step up cooperation in 
fighting counterfeiting in trade in 
alcoholic beverages 
中欧联手打击假酒
The European Commissioner for 
Agriculture and Rural Development, 
Dacian Ciolo. and the Minister of the 
Chinese General Administration of Quality 
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, 
Mr Zhi Shuping, signed a letter of intent 
on July 23rd in Beijing regarding fighting 
counter fei t ing in t rade in alcoholi c 
beverages. The document states that 
both parties acknowledge the growing 
importance of bilateral trade in alcoholic 
beverages, realise the impor tance of 
origin identification and see the need 
to c ooperate c losely in c ombat ing 
counterfeiting in this sector. 
欧洲委员会负责农业和农村发展事务的
委员达契安・乔罗什与中国国家质量监督检
验检疫总局局长支树平在北京签署了关于
打击假冒酒类饮品贸易的意向书。该文件表
明，双方都认识到酒类饮品的双边贸易越来
越重要，意识到原产地证书的重要性并看到
双方需要在此方面紧密合作，打击假冒伪劣
产品的贸易。 
“这是欧盟和中国在打击假冒伪劣葡萄
酒和烈酒方面迈出的重要一步，提高了双方
的合作效率，将产生积极的经济效应和贸易
效应，也与公共卫生和食品安全相关。它不
仅将为产品带来效益，也将让中国消费者继
续享受安全、多样和高质量的产品。” 乔罗
什委员在签署该意向书后如此说。 
该文件预见，双方都决心增强对话，并
消息来源： 欧盟总部
把对话作为欧中全面战略伙伴关系的一部
分，而且要增强 
交换关于假冒伪劣产品贸易的信息，让
双方都能在各自的职权范围内采取有效行
动，防范并打击此类贸易； 
识别在欧洲和中国境内的造假不法行
为，包括伪造原产地证书、原产地标记或其
他类似相关文件； 
寻求补救这些不法行为的最佳措施，包
括探寻建立适合的管控和可追溯性的可能
性，组织关于管控和可追溯性的培训和研
讨会，通过实验室分析探寻方法的可靠性。 
现有的酒类饮品工作组将监督并引导该
合作机制，该合作机制能认定现有的欧中
资助项目，为必要行动和培训举措筹集资
金。
The delegation OF THE EU celebrate S THE ACCESSION OF 
CROATIA TO THE EUROPEAN UNION AS THE 28TH MEMBER AND 
WELCOMES LITHUANIA AS THE NEW ROTATING PRESIDENT OF THE 
EU 
欧盟代表团庆祝克罗地亚成为欧盟的第28个成员国， 
同时迎接立陶宛成为欧洲理事会2013年下半年的轮值主席国 
为庆祝克罗地亚成为欧盟的第28个
成员国，同时迎接立陶宛成为欧洲理事会
2013年下半年的轮值主席国，欧盟驻华代
表团7月1日在京召开新闻发布会。 
立陶宛驻华大使安塔纳维切涅表示， 
立陶宛对担任欧洲理事会轮值主席国感到
十分荣幸。她提出，立陶宛将积极应对挑
战，努力建成一个更可信、更繁荣、更开放
的欧洲。 
克罗地亚驻华大使希莫尼奇表示加入
欧盟对克罗地亚具有非凡的意义，有利在
促进其繁荣稳定，并对欧盟的发展前景做
出了乐观展望。
图为欧盟驻华大使艾德和(右一)、立陶宛驻华大使安塔纳维切涅(中)和克罗地亚驻华大使希莫尼奇(右三) 
To celebrate Croatia's accession 
to the European Union as the 28th 
member and at the same t ime t o 
welcome Lithuania as the new rotating 
president countr y of the European 
Council, the Delegation of the European 
Union in Beijing has organized a press 
conference and reception on 1st of July. 
Ambassador of Lithuania, Ms. Lina 
Antanaviciene, thinks that becoming 
a president country is a great honour. 
She al so ex pres sed her and her 
country's endeavour that Lithuania will 
try to answer all the challenges and 
will contribute to the creation of a more 
reliable, prosperous and open Europe. 
Mr. Ante Simonic, Ambassador of 
Croatia, emphasized the extraordinary 
meaning for Croatia of joining the EU and 
he shared his view that the accession 
might bring even greater stability and 
prosperity for Croatia meanwhile it may 
also contribute to the development and 
economic wealth of Europe. He also 
shared his positive outlook with the 
audience concerning the European 
economy. 
文：朝亮
图：任云飞
Text: Chaoliang 
Photo:Ren Yunfei

16 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 17 
AMBASSADOR 大使访谈 
Interview with Ambassador of Croatia 
专访克罗地亚大使
Q:What were the major steps on the road of accession 
of Croatia to the EU? When did the accession talks 
begin? 
克罗地亚在加入欧盟的过程中，主要采取过哪些步骤？何时就加入
欧盟一事开始磋商？ 
A: The international recognition of the Republic of Croatia 
on 15 January 1992 marked the beginning of the development 
of relations between Croatia and the European Union. The 
intensification of these relations towards the end of 1999 and 
particularly from the beginning of 2000 led to the signing of the 
Stabilisation and Association Agreement (SAA) on October 29th 
2001. Croatia was the second country to sign a Stabilisation and 
Association Agreement (SAA) with the EU and that agreement 
represented the first formal contractual step in institutionalising 
the relationship of Croatia with the EU. 
国际社会于1992年1月15日承认克罗地亚共和国，此后，克罗
地亚与欧盟之间的关系不断发展，到1999年底至2000年初进一
步深化。2001年10月29日，克罗地亚与欧盟签署了《稳定与结盟协
定》（SAA）。自此，克罗地亚成为第二个与欧盟签署《稳定与结盟
协定》的国家。这项协定的签署标志着克罗地亚与欧盟关系的制度
化。
The agreement entered into force on February 1st 2005. 
Following Croatia's application for membership in the European 
Union on February 21st 2003 in Athens, the Council of the 
EU asked the Commission to prepare an opinion on Croatia's 
application bid. Based on a positive opinion by the European 
Commission, the European Council granted Croatia the status 
of candidate country for membership. After a positive report by 
the then ICTY Chief Prosecutor Carla Del Ponte, the Council 
concluded that conditions for starting negotiations had been met 
and negotiations were officially launched on October 3rd, 2005. 
After the successful negotiations the EU Member States decided 
on June 30th, 2011 to close the accession negotiations with 
Croatia, which allowed for the signature of the Accession Treaty 
on December 9th, 2011. 
《稳定与结盟协定》自2005年2月1日起生效。2003年2月21 
日，克罗地亚在雅典申请加入欧盟，欧盟理事会要求欧盟委员会
对克罗地亚的申请提出意见，得到肯定意见后，欧盟理事会给予
克罗地亚欧盟成员侯选国的地位。时任前南斯拉夫国际刑事法庭
（ICTY）总检察长的卡拉・德尔庞特提交了一篇报告，认为克罗地
亚已具备加入欧盟谈判的条件，2005年10月3日，谈判正式开始， 
进展顺利。2011年6月30日，欧盟成员国决定结束谈判，并于2011 
年12月9日与克罗地亚签署《加入欧盟条约》。
Q:Did you hold referendum about the accession? 
What percentage of the Croatian people are for and 
what percentage is against the accession? 
关于加入欧盟一事，克罗地亚举行过全民公决吗？有多少克罗地亚
人支持加入欧盟？多少人反对？ 
A: We did have a national referendum, held on January 22nd, 
2012, at which 66.27% (two thirds) of Croatian voters supported 
Croatia's accession to the European Union. With 136 "Yes" of 
total votes, Croatian Parliament unanimously ratified on March 
9th, the Accession Treaty of the Republic of Croatia to the 
European Union. Following the ratification procedure in all EU 
Member States and Croatia, on July 1st, 2013 Croatia becomes 
an EU Member State. 
我们在2012年1月22日举行过全民公决，66.27%（三分之二） 
的选民赞成克罗地亚加入欧盟。3月9日，克罗地亚议会以136票
“赞成”，通过了《克罗地亚共和国加入欧盟条约》。2013年7月1 
日，经所有欧盟成员国批准，克罗地亚正式加入欧盟。
Q:What kind of benefits may the accession bring for Croatia 
and the Croatian people? 
克罗地亚加入欧盟后，国家和人民将获得哪些利益？ 
A: EU membership offers many and substantial opportunities for 
Croatia and the EU. These opportunities now need to be used, 
so that Croatia’s participation in the EU will be a success C to the 
benefit of Croatia itself, of the Western Balkans region, and of 
the EU as a whole. 
加入欧盟将给克罗地亚带来诸多机遇，只有充分把握这些机
遇，克罗地亚加入欧盟才能算是一种成功――它将给克罗地亚，整
个西巴尔干地区，以及欧盟带来巨大利益。
As a consequence of accession, Croatian consumers will 
have access to more products of better quality and at a lower 
cost. For instance, since 1992 the price of airline tickets has 
fallen by 40% in the EU and roaming charges for mobile phone 
calls between EU countries have considerably fallen. The 
principle of the free movement of goods implies that products 
must be traded freely from one part of the Union to another. 
Croatia will be part of the internal market and will trade freely 
with all Member States. Similarly, imports into Croatia will 
automatically become imports into the EU. Croatia will take 
over the EU’s common commercial policy, which means that it 
transfers the responsibility for trade policy to the EU. Accession 
will also mean that Croatia will have denounced any trade 
agreement it might have concluded and become part of the free 
trade agreements the EU has so far concluded. 
克罗地亚加入欧盟后，消费者将购买到更优质、价廉物美的商
品。自1992年起，欧盟的机票价格下降了40%，欧盟各国间的手机
漫游费更是大幅度下调。货物自由往来的宗旨就意味着：欧盟与其
他国家之间必须实现产品贸易的自由化。克罗地亚将成为欧盟市场
的一部分，实现与其他欧盟成员国的自由贸易。同样，克罗地亚的
进口商品也就是欧盟的进口商品。克罗地亚将采取和欧盟一致的商
业政策，与欧盟承担同等的贸易政策责任。此外，加入欧盟后，克罗
地亚将废除原先签署的一切贸易协定，成为欧盟自由贸易协定的一
部分。
Free movement of workers and services and the freedom of 
establishment means that people can move freely in the territory 
of the EU (save for any transitional periods). This creates 
opportunities and allows for better allocation of labour within the 
EU. Market opening will increase competitiveness on all markets 
and so also on the labour market. That said, no significant inflow 
of labour from other EU Member States is expected. Citizens of 
other EU Member States who seek employment in Croatia will be 
employed under the same conditions as Croatian citizens in their 
home EU Member State. Already today, Croatia employs foreign 
workers in some sectors. Pursuant to the Law on Foreigners, 
foreigners can work in Croatia based on a work permit or a 
business permit. With Croatia's accession to the EU, if any of 
the Member States make use of the transitional provisions for 
workers from Croatia, according to the principle of reciprocity, 
Croatia can decide to apply its own transitional measures so 
that workers from those countries will still not be able to work in 
Croatia without a work permit. 
克罗地亚加入欧盟后，将实现劳动力与服务的自由流动，公民
享有在欧盟境内自由迁徙的权利。这样，就能创造更多就业机遇， 
实现劳动力的合理分配。市场的开放将进一步提高市场竞争力，包
括劳动力市场的竞争力。其他欧盟国家的劳动力不会大量涌入克罗
Text: N.G 文：高博

要满足多项条件。目前，有23个欧盟成员 
国加入申根区。有的国家于2004年加入欧 
盟，直到2007年才加入申根区。所以，克罗 
地亚要成为“正式的申根国”，还需要好几 
年时间。边境管制不会自动取消，我们仍将 
派警察巡逻边境，不过，海关检查将被取 
消。只有当克罗地亚加入申根区之后，我们 
才会取消边境上的警察巡逻。 

That means also that there will be no 
changes for Chinese businessman and 
tourists visiting Croatia, under the existing 
visa regime of Croatia. Pursuant to the 
Government’s decision, from January 
1, until December 31, 2013 all Chinese 
citizens holders of valid Schengen 
documents (residence permits, uniform 
visas type C, or a long-stay visas type 
D), issued by one of the Schengen Area 
member state, temporarily do not require 
Croatian visa for entry and short-term 
stay in Croatia, but they should leave 
Croatia and enter Schengen Area during 
validity of the Schengen visa.
所以，中国企业家与游客造访克罗地亚时，
手续和之前相比，不会有任何变化。根据政
府规定，从2013年1月1日起至2013年12月
31日期间，凡是持有任何一个申根国签证
（申根居留许可证、C类申根签证、D类申根
长期签证）的中国公民，可在不申请克罗地
亚签证的前提下入境或短暂停留，不过，他
们离开克罗地亚的日期应在上述申根签证
的有效期之内。 

Do you think that China and other 
Asian countries should follow the pattern 
of the EU and establish an “Asian Union”? 

5.您认为，中国和其他亚洲国家是否应当
仿效欧盟的形式，建立一个 “亚洲联盟”？ 
It is not easy to answer at this 
question. In my own opinion each 
association should be based on common 
interests, but entry to any community of 
nations C means an end of one chapter 
of political and social existence of a 
country, and the beginning of another. 
Before entering any community, each 
country should estimate what it could get 
and what it could lose by entering such 
a community. China and other Asian 
countries will act and create associations 
and forums in accordance with their own 
policies and regional interests. I think that 
cooperation among states and regions is 
necessity and that no country can remain 
isolated in today’s world of globalization. 

18 THE WORLD AND CHINA 

with global challenges. 
The EU is interested in 
dialogue and cooperation 
with ASEAN and 
coordination on regional 
and global issues.

亚洲已经建立了“东南亚
国家联盟”（ASEAN），
旨在加强各成员国之间的
经济合作，促进地区和平
与稳定。东盟的下一个主
要目标是：仿效欧盟的单
一市场模式，加速各成员
国之间的经济一体化，具
体措施包括：取消关税、实
现贸易自由化、鼓励劳动
力与资金流动。欧盟支持
东盟加强成员国之间的合
作，实现地区一体化，促进
地区稳定、进步，共同应对
全球挑战。欧盟愿意与东


这个问题很难回答。我个人认为，所有联盟
都应建立在共同利益之上，而一个国家在
加入某个联盟之时，不论是从政治，还是社
会角度，都意味着一个旧篇章的结束，预示
着一个新篇章的开始。在加入联盟之前，每
个国家都应权衡利弊，估计能从中获得什
么，又会丧失什么。中国及其他亚洲国家将
根据自身的政治需求和地区利益，建立属于
自己的联盟和论坛。我认为，国家和地区之
间的合作很有必要，在当今的全球化时代，
没有哪个国家是孤立存在的。 

In Asia there already exists 
Association of South East Asian 
Countries C ASEAN, whose aim of 
cooperation is to strengthen economic 
cooperation between the member states 
and to promote peace and stability in 
the region. One of the main objectives 
of further action by ASEAN's interest is 
to accelerate the economic integration 
of the member states on the model of 
the single market of the European Union 
(EU), which would include the abolition 
of tariffs, liberalization of trade and the 
movement of labor and capital. The 
European Union supports the efforts of 
ASEAN to intensify cooperation among 
ASEAN member states and their regional 
integration aimed at strengthening 
regional stability, progress and dealing 

盟保持对话与合作，加强
双方在地区与全球事务方面的合作。 

There is also AsiaCEurope Meeting 

(ASEM) an interregional forum officially 

established in 1996, with political, 
economical and social, cultural and 
educational pillars. It consists of the 
28 members of the EU, the European 
Commission, the 10 members of the 
ASEAN Secretariat, China, Japan, the 
Republic of Korea, India, Mongolia, 
Pakistan, Australia, Russia, New Zealand, 
and as of 2012 Bangladesh, Norway, and 
Switzerland. In general, the process is 
considered by the parties involved to be 
a way of deepening the relations between 
Asia and Europe at all levels, which is 
deemed necessary to achieve a more 
balanced political and economic world 
order. 

亚洲还于1 9 9 6年创办了“亚欧会议 ”
（ASEM）跨地区论坛，讨论政治、经济、社
会与教育方面的议题。“亚欧会议”的成员
包括28个欧盟成员国、欧盟委员会、10个
东盟秘书处成员国：中国、日本、韩国、印
度、蒙古、巴基斯坦、澳大利亚、俄罗斯、新
西兰，以及2012年加入的孟加拉国、挪威
和瑞士。“亚欧会议”的宗旨是：从各个层面
上深化亚洲与欧洲之间的合作，建立更有
序的全球政治与经济秩序。 

大使访谈 

AMBASSADOR


马可波罗故居

地亚。如其他欧盟国家的公民想在克罗地
亚就业，他们享受的待遇与克罗地亚公民
在他们国家工作时享受的待遇是一样的。
目前，克罗地亚的某些产业在雇佣外国工
人。根据《外国人法》的规定，外国人获得
就业许可证或经商许可证后，可在克罗地
亚工作。克罗地亚加入欧盟后，假如任何一
个欧盟国家针对克罗地亚工人采取过渡措
施，根据对等原则，克罗地亚也会采取同样
的措施，这些国家的工人在未取得就业许
可证的情况下，不能在克罗地亚就业。 

Croatian citizens are able to benefit 
from their domestic entitlements (health 
services, pension) in another EU country. 
According to the free movement of people 
principle C the citizens can benefit from 
the health and pension services in the 
entire Union. Retired EU citizens can 
move to any EU country and receive their 
statutory pension there and in that country 
they are entitled to the same healthcare 
coverage as citizens of that country. For 

19 THE WORLD AND CHINA

necessary health care during a temporary 
stay in another EU Member State, the 
citizens can use the European Health 

Insurance Card (EHIC) which grants its 

holders access to public healthcare when 
medically necessary on the same terms 
as the host country's citizens.

克罗地亚公民将享受到其他欧盟国家
的医疗保险和养老金。根据人口自由流动
的宗旨，克罗地亚公民将享受到整个欧盟的
医疗保险与养老金。退休的欧盟公民可搬
迁到任何一个欧盟国家，在该国领取退休
金，享受与当地居民一样的医疗保险。居民
在某个欧盟国家暂住期间，可使用欧洲健
康保险卡（EHIC）看病就医，享受和当地居
民一样的医疗待遇。 

Farmers in Croatia should have 

already seen some of the benefits that EU 

membership can bring in the build-up to 
enlargement. Targeted rural development 
schemes have already started through 

the IPARD scheme (Instrument for Pre-
Accession Rural Development) and the 

progressive liberalisation of trade has 
been an important part of the preparation 
for enlargement of the single market.

克罗地亚加入欧盟后，也给农民带来了
巨大好处。国家制订农村发展计划，比如
IPARD计划，实现贸易自由化，为扩大单一
市场做准备。 

Croatia will have at its disposal the 
EU structural and cohesion funds. The 
country has already started to prepare for 
their use through the pre-accession funds 
which automatically convert to structural 
funds after July 1st. In Croatia, EU funds 
will also help to diversify the agriculture, 
fisheries and aquaculture sectors. The 
investments, combined with the national 
contributions will also support a more 
balanced transport network, especially 
railways as well as promoting sustainable 
transport networks in Croatia's cities. 

克罗地亚还对“欧盟结构与凝聚基金”
拥有了处置权，政府准备使用“加入前基
金”，并从7月1日起，将“加入前资金”自动
转化为结构资金。来自欧盟的资金不仅能
促进克罗地亚农林渔业的多样化发展，还
能促进交通网络，尤其是铁路的发展，在各
城市之间构造一个可持续发展的交通网。 

Q:Will anything change for 
Chinese businessmen and tourists 
investing in Croatia or visiting 
Croatia?
关于中国企业家在克罗地亚投资，以及中
国游客前往克罗地亚观光，克罗地亚加入
欧盟后，政策上会有什么变化？ 

A: Becoming an EU Member State 
does not mean that the country will 
automatically join the Schengen Area. In 
order to become member of a Schengen 
Area, countries must fulfill a list of preconditions. 
Currently, 23 EU Member 
States are part of the Schengen Area. 
Countries that entered EU in 2004 joined 
the Schengen Area in 2007. Therefore, it 
is likely to expect that it will take Croatia a 
couple of years to prepare for joining the 
"full Schengen". Therefore border controls 
will not be automatically abolished. Police 
control will stay, but the customs control 
will no longer be there. Police control will 
only disappear once Croatia joins the 
Schengen Area.

一个国家成为欧盟成员国以后，并不意味
着它将自动加入申根区。要加入申根区，需

THE WORLD AND CHINA 19


TOP inter vie w 高端访谈
20 THE WORLD AND CHINA 
你知道我们吗？ 
专访耐丽・内诺娃， 欧洲旅游委员会中国办事处主席
When was the ETC 
founded, how many 
members does it have 
and how does it operate? 
T h e E u r o p e a n Tr a v e l 
Commission was founded in 
1948 as part of the Marshall plan 
for the reconstruction of Europe. 
ETC’s members are the National 
Tourist Organisations (NTOs) of 
33 European countries, and our 
main aim is to promote Europe 
as a tourism destination in long 
haul markets. The organisation 
has its headquarters in Brussels, 
and Operations Groups in each 
of the four markets where the 
organisation is active: China, 
USA, Canada and Brazil. The 
Operations Group gathers the 
representatives of the European 
NTOs present in the market and 
carries out a programme of joint 
activities for the promotion of 
Europe. 
How many individual and 
how many group tourists 
t ravel f rom China t o 
Europe? 
First estimates show that in 2012, Europe attracted 33.4% 
(5.7 million) of Chinese total long-haul travellers. Due to the 
Approved Destination Status (ADS) policy, the majority of the 
Chinese outbound leisure passengers need to join a group 
organised by licenced travel agencies. According to our latest 
data, 89, 1 % of the Chinese outbound tourism is organised by 
travel agencies. 
The Chinese tourists usually do not speak 
English or any other European languages. Are 
there any programs for the people working in 
the European tourism industry to bridge the 
language gap? 
Do You Know About Us? 
Interview with Neli Nanova , European Travel Commission , 
Operation Group China Chair 
We a r e c e r t a i n l y 
aware that the language 
barrier is one of the major 
challenges for Chinese 
travellers in Europe, and 
we emphasize this in our 
studies on the Chinese 
outbound travel market. 
The first important step is 
to realize what we can do 
to improve the experience 
of the Chinese travellers 
and to persuade them 
to come to Europe. This 
is why we produce the 
above mentioned studies 
a n d a l l o u r p a r t n e r s 
form the industry have 
ac c es s to the Mar ket 
Intelligence produced by 
ETC. We know that some 
of the major hotel chains 
are t r y ing to improve 
the s i tuat ion wi th the 
language gap and the 
food preferences, which 
are another challenge, but 
of course this is a process 
which takes time. 
Ever y European countr y would like to 
increase the number of incoming Chinese 
tourists, so the countries are competitors 
of each other. How and in what extent would 
then the cooperation be possible between the 
individual countries in Europe. 
The European Travel Commission unites 33 European 
NTOs’ efforts to promote Europe in long haul markets, and this is 
clear sign that the European countries are aware how important 
collaboration is. We know that Chinese travellers, especially 
when they visit Europe for the first time, almost never travel to 
one country C they perceive the region as a whole and are eager 
to see as much as possible. Therefore is crucial to promote 
Europe as one destination and this is what ETC is doing. 
Text: N.G 文：高博 
THE WORLD AND CHINA 21 
How do the Chinese tourists spend their time 
abroad? 
The MasterIndex of Travel China (2nd half of 2008) found 
that the main activities of private travellers (to all destinations) 
were general sightseeing and scenic spots (84%) and shopping 
(82%, up sharply since 2006). Preferred shopping items are 
local souvenirs, antiques and arts and crafts (71%), apparel and 
personal effects (67%), electronic and audio-visual products 
(36%), food items (35%) and luxury and branded goods (32%). 
52% of travellers opted for entertainments, 41% visited historical 
sites, museums and art centres, 25% went to a beach resort and 
38% engaged in 'rest & recreation'. 
Me, personally, I think that regardless of all data, Chinese 
travellers still could be united by one expression in Chinese: 
“走马观花”. 
Do you collect feedback from Chinese tourists 
arriving back to China? 
As I mentioned before, it is extremely impor tant to 
understand the Chinese traveller’s expectations in order to meet 
them, to know what the Chinese people look for and what they 
find difficult to deal with when they are in Europe. Therefore 
ETC together with UNWTO in 2013 published the study 
“Understanding Chinese Outbound Tourism - What the Chinese 
Blogosphere is Saying About Europe”, available for members, 
industry partners and other interested parties. Through its 
innovative approach the study draws from the raw streams of 
opinion as expressed by millions of Chinese bloggers, providing 
users with a unique opportunity to understand the Chinese 
travellers. 
多少成员是什么时候成立的ETC，它和它是如何运作
的？ 
欧洲旅游委员会成立于1948年重建欧洲的马歇尔计划的一部分。 
ETC的成员有33个欧洲国家的国家旅游组织（国家旅游组织），和
我们的主要目的是促进欧洲在长途市场作为旅游目的地。该组织的
总部设在布鲁塞尔，每四个组织是活跃市场和业务组：中国，美国， 
加拿大和巴西。行动小组收集了目前市场上的欧洲国家旅游组织的
代表，并进行了促进欧洲联合活动方案。
许多个人和团体游客出行多少从中国到欧洲？ 
初步估计显示，2012年，欧洲吸引了33.4％（5.7亿美元），中国总
的长途旅客。由于核准旅游目的地国地位（ADS）的政策，中国出
境休闲的大部分乘客需要加入一组由持牌旅行社组织。根据我们的
最新数据，89，1％的中国出境旅游的旅行社举办的旅游。
中国游客通常不会讲英语或任何其他欧洲语言。是否
有任何计划在欧洲旅游业工作的人，以弥合语言差
距？ 
我们当然知道，语言不通是中国游客在欧洲的主要挑战之一，我们
强调在我们的研究在中国出境旅游市场。第一个重要步骤是要认识
到我们能做些什么来提高中国游客的经验，并说服他们来欧洲。这
就是为什么我们产生上面提到的研究和我们所有的合作伙伴形成
产业策会市场情报等所产生的访问。我们知道，一些主要的连锁酒
店正试图改善这种状况与语言障碍，以及食物的喜好，这是另一种
挑战，但当然这是一个过程，需要时间。
想每一个欧洲国家传入中国的游客数量增加，因此国
家对彼此是竞争对手。怎样和在什么程度，然后将在
欧洲的各个国家之间的合作有可能。
欧洲旅游委员会联合33个欧洲国家旅游组织的努力，以促进欧洲
在长途市场，这是明显的迹象表明欧洲国家意识到合作是多么的重
要。我们知道中国游客，尤其是当他们第一次访问欧洲，几乎从来
没有一个国家旅行 - 他们把这一区域作为一个整体，尽可能渴望看
到。因此是至关重要的，以促进欧洲作为一个目标，这是什么等。
你在中国学习.... 
旅行中国（2008年下半年）的万事达卡发现，私人旅行的主要活
动（所有目的地），一般观光景区（84％），购物（82％，同比大幅
下滑2006年起）。购物首选项目是当地纪念品，古董，工艺美术品
（71％），服装和个人的影响（67％），电子和音像制品（36％）， 
食品（35％）和奢侈品，品牌商品（32 ％）。 52％的旅客选择了娱
乐，41％的参观历史遗址，博物馆和艺术中心，去一个海滩度假胜
地25％和38％从事“休息和娱乐”。
我个人而言，我认为，不管所有的数据，中国游客仍然可以团结一个
中国的表达：“走马观花”。
你收集反馈来自中国的游客到达中国...... 
正如我之前提到的，它是为了满足他们，要知道中国人什么看什么， 
他们发现很难处理，当他们在欧洲非常重要的是要了解中国游客的
期望。因此，ETC与联合国世界旅游组织在2013年发表的研究“了
解中国出境旅游 - 中国博客说什么关于欧洲”，为会员，行业合作
伙伴和其他有关各方一起。通过其创新的方法研究得出的意见，表
示数以百万计的中国博客的原始数据流，为用户提供一个独特的机
会了解中国的旅客。

22 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 23 
TOP inter vie w 高端访谈
专访林舜杰先生，中国国际商会秘书长
Interview with Mr. Shunjie Lin, 
General Secretary of CCO IC 
Text: N.G 文：高博 
Are there any differences between the 
outbound investment patterns of Chinese 
state and privately owned companies? 
What are the figures of state and private 
outbound investment? 
In the first half year of 2013, Chinese companies 
have invested in 2912 foreign companies across 144 
countries and regions. The growth rate of 28.7% in 
2013 is 0.1% higher than that of 2012. With a total of 
US$45.6 billion, the proportion of equity investment 
and others is 80.9% while that of profit reinvestment 
is 19.1%. 
The 0.1% increase is mainly a result of the 
expansion of Chinese outbound investment patterns. 
In 2010, approximately 66% of non-financial FDIs 
are undertaken by state owned companies and the 
main investment purpose of these companies is to 
acquire natural resources. Such situation was driven 
by the fact that the main area of Chinese FDI in the 
past was resource acquisition. However, according 
to a recent survey among our member companies, 
the motivation of Chinese outbound investment 
has expanded to a wide range from market 
expansion, acquisition of advanced technology 
and experiences, cost reduction, acquisition of 
international brand, to evasion of trade barriers and 
possession of natural resources. It is reasonable to 
see, a main reason of that is because more private 
companies are investing overseas. The diversity of investment 
purposes of private companies caused the diversity of that of 
Chinese FDI. 
Which countries receive the most Chinese capital 
and in which sectors? 
According to official statistics, one of the top investment 
destinations is Hong Kong. In 2012 over 65% of FDI was sent to 
Hong Kong. However, that is not always correct because Hong 
Kong is a transit point rather than a final destination for capitals. 
When it comes to the true final destinations, they are still the 
developed countries. 60% of large investment projects with an 
average of 1.4 million capital are made in developed countries 
such as Australia, Hong Kong SAR, the USA, Germany and 
Canada. 
Meanwhile it is noticeable that for the growing private sector, 
their main investment destinations are Vietnam, Cambodia and 
neighboring countries. 
The main sector is still energy and natural resources. 
However, we see an increase in the manufacturing sector. On 
the one hand, acquiring energy and natural resource is critical 
for China to hedge its risks and it is a dominant sector for all 
countries FDI. On the other hand, the increasing of awareness 
of intellectual property and the optimization and upgrade of 
industrial structure has lead Chinese companies such as Lenovo 
and Huawei to increase their FDI in manufacturing sector. 
In Europe some countries like Cyprus, Portugal, 
Hungary etc. have started special programs to 
encourage investment. These countries will provide 
residence permit if the foreigner buys a certain 
amount of state bonds, starts a new company and 
creates jobs or buys some real-estate property. What 
do you think what is the best way to attract foreign 
investors with residence permit? 
The purpose of such immigration policies is to save the 
nation’s economy. However in my opinion it will not work out 
neither for these nations nor the investors. 
For the above countries, inbound investment may increase 
in the short run but such investment is unsustainable. It will lead 
to even severe fluctuation on the nation’s economy. 
For the investors, such real estate investment is of high risks. 
The value of real estate varies dramatically with the economy. 
Given that all these countries are at their recession, the investors 
will expose them into the unstable economies. Furthermore, 
taxation is another issue. Value added tax, real estate transfer 
tax, property tax, and stamp duty are all relevant in this matter. 
How do you see the trade disputes? Is the number 
of trade frictions on the increase? How many trade 
disputes and in what percentage did you manage 
successfully over the last few years? Can you 
mention some important cases? 
There are a number of cases in the past years. The most 
recent one that our Chamber has been working on is the EUChina 
photovoltaic tax case. Due to the very negative impact on 
my members, our chamber organized the companies and issued 
a public statement by our Chairman of ICC China Environment 
and New Energy Commission, Mr. Wang Xiaokang. Mr. Wang 
Xiaokang, as Chairman of China Energy Conservation and 
Environmental Protection Group, is widely recognized as the 
business leader of China’s photovoltaic industry. He authorized 
the statement to ensure its credibility and significance. 
With this statement and fur ther communication, we 
obtained the support of International Chamber of Commerce 
(ICC). According to ICC, such measures proposed by the EU 
Commission are divisive and potentially damaging to world trade. 
Such support from ICC as the largest international business 
organization in the world help the EU Commission understanding 
that this case is not only a bilateral trade dispute but also against 
the global trend of trade liberalization. The movement of our 
Chamber clearly contributed to the final resolution of this case. 
How do you see the export chances of Chinese 
culture as a product? What are the main obstacles 
of increasing the export volume of Chinese films, TV 
series etc. 
In the global international trade, service trade is one of the 
most promising sector. With the rapid growth of service sector 
in most countries, service trade will take over two-thirds of the 
world FDI. China in particular, ranks the top 3 for its trade of 
goods but only No.8 for its trade of service. The gap indicates a 
great potential for Chinese cultural product and services to grow. 
More importantly, culture product is a critical category of the 
twelve kinds of service products for international trade. 
Cul tural produc t s and cul tural ser vices have the 
inherent feature of high-tech content, high added value, and 
environmental protection and energy saving. Two benchmarks 
in this sector are the American Hollywood film and the Japanese 
anime and manga. Hollywood film is the second largest export 
product besides space flight and aviation products for USA, 
while anime and manga products generates over US$12 billion 
for Japan. 
Compared to USA and Japan, Chinese government gives 
strong support to the culture industry. In the twelfth five-year 
plan, there is a special section that refers to promoting cultural 
development and prosperity. Cultural industry takes a very 
important effect on the economic structure reform, expanding 
domestic demand, and increasing employment. 
China has a long history and diversified culture. It suggests 
a wide range of cultural products for Chinese companies to 
develop. For example, the popularity of the 76-episode drama 
series "Legend of Zhen Huan" in Japan was a good example of 
exporting Chinese culture. 
On the other hand, there are two main obstacles C brand 
and distribution channel. Because the Chinese brand is not 
recognized in the international market, it is hard for potential 
customers to filter out Chinese culture product from the countless 
generic items. Furthermore, currently most of our cultural 
products are sold by expo and exhibitions. More overseas 
branches may help building long term business relationship and 
increase the export of such products. 
中国国企和私企的境外投资模式有什么不同吗？国企
与私企的境外投资额是多少？ 
在2013年上半年，中国企业有INVESTA 2912国外公司在144 
个国家和地区。在2013年28.7％的增长速度是0.1％，高于危害
2012th随着美元45.6亿美元的总比例的股权投资和其他伤害，而
80.9％的利润再投资为19.1％。 
2013年上半年，中国企业对144个国家和地区的2912家企业进
行投资。2013年的投资增长率为28.7%，比2012年高出0.1%。投
资额总计456亿美元，其中股权投资占80.9%，利润再投资比例为
19.1%。
这0.1%的增长主要归功于海外投资模式的拓展。2010年，在非金

24 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 25 
Almost everybody knows his name in diplomatic circles. Years in, years out, 
old diplomats leaving, new ones arriving, but he is here as nothing has changed: 
Mr. Liu Ansheng. 
The scroll entitled “Long Scroll of Piece”, he is holding in his hands, is getting 
longer and longer. There are exactly 1279 people, diplomats and statesmen, who 
have already signed it. 
This September Mr. Liu is going to donate this 105 meters long paper scroll 
to the United Nations in the hope that the UN will adopt a proposal to control the 
production and distribution of children’s toy weapons so as to help the healthy 
development of children. 
刘安胜， 在北京的外交圈子里很多人都认识他，老的外交官离任了， 新的来了，年
复一年，已有18年了。 刘安胜手里的那个“和平长卷”也随之越来越长。至今在上面
签名的外交官，国外元首已达1279人。 
今年刘安胜先生将在9月将此长达105米的长卷递交给联合国， 望联合国立案立
法，为全世界儿童们的健康成长着想， 限定游戏武器的生产，销售。 
In 1999 Boutros Boutros Ghali, Secretary General of United 
Nations signed the scroll for Liu Ansheng in Beijing. 
Past 14 years Mr. Liu has received the signature of another 
general secretary of the UN, Ban Ki Moon. 
1999年， 当时在位时的联合国秘书长加利在京在刘安胜的长
卷上第一次签名，时隔14年在内瓦万国宫又为刘先生第二次签名
融类对外直接投资中，66%的投资由国企进行，主要投资目的是取
得天然资源。由此可以看出，当时中国对外投资的主要目的是获取
资源。不过，最近的一项调查显示，中国企业的对外投资动机已进
一步拓展，包括市场扩张、获得高新技术、降低成本、收购国际品
牌、规避贸易壁垒、获取天然资源。越来越多的私企也开始投资海
外，这是合理的现象。私企的投资目的很多样化，也使中国的海外
投资更多样化。
哪些国家获得现在中国的资本和在哪些部门？ 
据官方统计，香港是最受欢迎的投资目的地，2012年，超过65% 
的对外直接投资流向香港。不过，这个数字不一定准确，因为香港
只是一个资金中转站，而不是资金的最终归属地，资金最终还是流
向发达国家。在投资额140万元左右的大型投资项目中，60%的项
目在发达国家进行，比如澳大利亚、香港特别行政区、美国、德国和
加拿大。 
值得注意的是，私营企业的投资也在增长，主要的投资目的地包
括越南、柬埔寨，以及中国的周边国家。 
中国最主要的投资领域仍然是能源和天然资源。不过，制造业的
投资也出现增长。一方面，中国要规避风险，就必须获得能源和天
然资源，而且，在所有国家，能源和天然资源都是主要的投资领域。
另一方面，随着知识产权意识的提高与产业结构的优化升级，联
想、华为等中国知名企业都在加大制造业的海外投资。
在欧洲一些国家，如塞浦路斯，葡萄牙，匈牙利等。已
经开始的特别节目，以鼓励投资。如果外国人购买一
定量的国债，创建并启动一个新的公司工作，或买一
些房地产物业，这些国家将提供居住证。你觉得什么
是最好的方式，以吸引外国投资者居住证？ 
此类移民政策旨在拯救国家的经济。但是，我认为，这些政策不
论是对于国家，还是投资者来说，都不会有太大帮助。 
在上述国家，境内投资可能会在短期内增加，但是，这种投资却
是不可持续的，甚至会造成国家经济剧烈波动。 
对于投资者而言，房地产投资具有极大的风险。房地产价格会随
着经济形势剧烈变化。而上述国家的经济都在衰退，给投资者造成
很大的不确定性。投资者还必须交税，包括增值税、房产交易税、
不动产税、印花税等。
你是如何看待的贸易争端？贸易摩擦的数量在增加
吗？许多贸易争端如何，你在什么比例在过去几年成
功吗？你提到的一些重要案例？ 
近年来，中国与别国之间存在不少贸易争端，最近，我们就在应
对欧盟对中国光伏产品的征税。征税将对商会会员带来巨大的负面
影响，所以，我们将各家企业组织起来，并由国际商会（ICC）中国
环境与新能源委员会主席王小康先生发布一项公开声明。王小康先
生是中国节能环保集团董事长，在中国光伏产业享有巨大声望，此
次由他出面发布的声明，具有极高的可信度，意义非凡。 
除发布声明、保持沟通之外，我们还得到国际商会（ICC）的支
持。国际商会表示，欧盟委员会此举只会制造更多争端，破坏全球
贸易。国际商会是全球最大的企业组织，通过ICC 的斡旋，欧盟委
员会知道，这个案子不仅是一起双边贸易争端，还会阻碍全球贸易
自由化的进程。显然，我们所作的努力有助于最终解决这一问题。
你怎么看中国文化出口的机会，作为一个产品？有哪些
主要的障碍，增加出口量，中国电影，电视剧等。 
在全球贸易领域，服务贸易是最具发展潜力的产业之一。在多数
国家，服务产业迅速成长，服务贸易占到全球对外直接投资的三分
之二。在商品交易方面，中国的排名位居全球前三，但在服务贸易
方面，只排名第八。这个差异显示出中国在文化产品与服务方面的
巨大增长潜力。更重要的是，文化产品在国际贸易的十二种服务产
品中，是非常关键的一种。 
文化产品和服务本身具备高科技含量、高附加值、节能环保的特
点，美国好莱坞电影和日本动漫是全球文化产业的著名代表。在美
国，除航天产品之外，好莱坞电影是第二大出口商品。日本动漫产
业每年的利润超过120亿美元。 
同美日一样，中国政府对文化产业大力扶持。在“十二五”计划
中，专门有一部分强调促进文化发展和繁荣。在促进经济结构转
型、扩大内需、增加就业方面，文化产业将起到非常重要的作用。 
中国具有悠久的历史和多样的文化，中国企业可发展形式丰富的
文化产品。例如，76集电视连续剧《甄缳传》在日本深受欢迎，这就
是中国文化产品出口的绝佳事例。 
另一方面，中国文化产业发展也面临着两大制约：品牌和传播渠
道。由于中国品牌在 国际市场上的认可度不高，潜在客户很难从庞
大的产品类别中，筛选出中国文化产品。而且目前，大多数中国文化
产品只在贸易展上销售。如果企业在海外设立更多分公司，与海外
客户建立长期的合作关系，将进一步提高文化产品的出口量。
He got yet another sig nature , 
UN Secretar y General Ban Ki Moon sig ned for him 
他又获得了一个签名， 联合国秘书长潘基文的手体 
在今年7月1日日内瓦万国宫召开的“联合国经济及社会理事会
（Economic and Social Council--ECOSOC）2013年实质性会
议”的开幕式上刘安胜先生获得了秘书长潘基文的亲笔签名。
On July 1st at the opening of the meeting of Economic and 
Social Council of the United Nations in Palais des Nations, 
Geneva, Mr. Liu Ansheng has acquired the signature of Genaral 
Secretary Ban Ki Moon. 
文：Nagy Lin 

TOP inter vie w 高端访谈
26 THE WORLD AND CHINA 
特访美猴王扮演者，章金莱（六小龄童）先生
Q:你认为越南的孩子为什么也喜欢这个故事，故事成功的秘密是什
么？ 
A：在明代末年吴承恩先生根据民间千年来传说的猴王故事、唐代
玄奘大师西天取经的传奇经历写定了这部《西游记》小说，已经过
四百多年来的大浪淘沙成为真正的中国四大名著之一并在世界上产
《六小龄童品西游》越文版章金莱（六小龄童）先生
Biên t.p viên: Cách .ay kh.ng lau, trong chuy.n th.m Trung Qu.c c.a ch. t.ch n..c C.ng hòa X. h.i Ch. ngh.a Vi.t Nam 
Tr..ng T.n Sang, t.i s. quán Vi.t Nam ch. t.ch n..c .. có cu.c g.p g. than m.t v.i các nhan s. h.i H.u Ngh. Trung Vi.t. 
Chúng t.i v. cùng ng.c nhiên tr..c s. có m.t c.a di.n viên Ch..ng Kim Lai C ng..i .óng vai M. H.u V..ng, c.ng chính là 
L.c Ti.u Linh ..ng, r.t nhi.u các Fan Vi.t Nam .. vay quanh .ng .. xin ch. ky và ch.p .nh l.u ni.m. B. phim “Tay Du Ky” 
v.n ...c b.n bè Vi.t Nam v. cùng yêu thích, b. sách do Ch..ng Kim Lai biên t.p vi.t v. Tay Du Ky c.ng .. ...c d.ch sang 
ti.ng Vi.t. 
Ph.ng v.n di .n vi ên .óng vai M. H.u V..ng - 
Ch..ng Kim Lai (L.c Ti.u Linh ..ng ) 
生了巨大的影响，据不完全统计已被翻印成英文、日文、朝鲜文、西
班牙文、德文、瑞典文、比利时文、法文、意大利文、斯里兰卡文等
多种语言的版本，孙悟空的形象具有很大的国际化，是人类能想象
的偶像型的神话人物，而且写出了孙悟空的童心，从而赢得世界男
女老少读者的喜爱尤其是青少年儿童的钟爱。
编者按：不久前越南国家主席张晋创先生访华， 他在越南使馆举办了与华,越友好人士会见会。我们惊讶地看
到美猴王的扮演者章金莱先生，也就 是六小龄童也在场， 很多越南粉丝都围着他让他签名，合影留念。原来
《西游记》电影在越南十分受欢迎， 章金莱编辑的有关西游记的书已被翻译成越语。
Text: N.G 
THE WORLD AND CHINA 27 
在胡志明市签售现场
六小龄童家庭合影
张晋创为六小龄童越南版新书题词
世界人类的情感是共通的，《西游记》这部小说由于成功塑造了孙
悟空猴、神、人（猴的动物性、神的传奇性、人的社会性），所以才会
赢得一代又一代读者的喜爱。
Q:你孩提时代喜欢读童话书吗？什么样的童话最吸引你？ 
A：我孩提时代最喜欢读童话和神话，尤其是《西游记》小说，除了
喜欢其中的神话故事，也接触并喜爱《安徒生童话》等世界类的童
话，我还留有一本从小就翻看的《木偶奇遇记》，里面的故事特别适
合孩子们阅读，当然更喜欢的还是《安徒生童话》等童话及《西游
记》的神话故事。
Q:西游记给成年人哪些启发？ 
A：《西游记》写了儒释道三教合一的故事，孙悟空是儒释道三教合
一的典范，写了从猴王出世到大闹天宫的个人成长史，更多的笔墨
写的是师徒五人历尽千难万险、九九八十一难，最后成为被海内外
誉为最牛的团队，看似五个人西天取经，其实每个人都在实现自己
的承诺和对理想的追求，每个人都是一种成功。所以对成年人来说
可以从《西游记》这部小说中汲取人生的智慧和生活的哲理。
Q:你自己亲自看过几次？ 
A：我无数遍的看过《西游记》的卡通书、动画书、连环画、电影、电
视作品及戏曲舞台的猴戏表演艺术，尤其是不同年龄不同阶段阅读
《西游记》的小说会有各自不同的人生体验，拍完电视剧《西游记》
后我就深深的感到自己真正的人生八十一难刚刚开始。我前半生在
传承猴戏艺术，后半生希望更多的传承中国的猴文化，我在北京大
学、清华大学、泰国崇圣大学、越南人文社会大学等海内外一百多
所大学及三百多所中小学开展“西游文化校园行”活动，著书立说， 
出版了《六小龄童品西游》（已翻译成越南文）、《听孙悟空说西游》
（已翻译成维语，藏文、哈萨克文正在编译中），希望把《西游记》
的电影《美猴王》拍摄成功，西游记主题公园在中国九百六十万平
方公里的土地上真正的建立起来，让一代又一代海内外的游客感受
西游文化带给我们的人生智慧和生活哲理。
Q:你专门演孙悟空，在你自己的生活中角色的性格对你有影响吗？ 
A：我因前后17年（1982-1999）完成一部世界名著电视剧《西游
记》而被载入大世界基尼斯纪录，现在又因“馆藏《西游记》主题展
品最多的展馆”、“收藏西游记主题出版物最多的人” 而被收录大
世界基尼斯纪录，2004年在淮安、2012年在上海政府有关方面分
别建了美猴王世家艺术馆、上海六小龄童艺术馆，1994年创立了中
国著名商标“六小龄童”，生产各种儿童系列品牌，要做生活西游， 
让一代又一代的青少年从方方面面感受到美猴王、《西游记》无处
不在。
由于我的家族四代一百多年来出演孙悟空是中国猴戏历史的缩影， 
我因长期扮演孙悟空，使自己的性格产生了不小的变化，孙悟空的
机智、勇敢、正义、智慧或多或少会让我在人生的道路上有新的启
迪和感悟。
文：高博

28 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 29 
EMBASSY 使馆之窗 
Argentine Minister of 
Science and Technology 
Holds a Press Conference 
阿根廷科技新闻发布会
On 4th of June 2013 Argentine Minister of Science, 
Technology and Productive Technology, Mr. Jose Lino Salvador 
Baranao has held a press conference at the Embassy of 
Argentine in Beijing to inform the press about the goals of his 
current visit to China. 
After an introduction by Ambassador Gustavo Martino, Mr. 
Baranao made the following points in his speech: 
Argentine has a huge production capacity in terms of 
agricultural products. Although Argentine has a population of 
only 42 million, it is capable to produce food to feed more than 
400 million people; 
There are a number of S&T cooperation projects already in 
place between Argentinean and Chinese companies, one of the 
areas having a model value is software technology and food 
processing; 
Argentine is rich in Lithium, which is an element needed to 
produce high capacity batteries, so Argentine is very keen to 
cooperate with Chinese R&D facilities to further enhance the 
technology of cutting edge accumulators; 
Argentine is to study the Chinese technologies of fast 
speed train as well as the subway. A delegation has already 
been sent to China to this end; 
Argentine is also interested in cooperation concerning 
freight and logistics technologies; 
R&D centres of Argentine are very active in international 
cooperation, as an example they already have joint research 
project with Italy in the field of industrial design and with France 
in supercomputing. The next joint project might be with China 
in nanotechnology; 
S&T is well advanced in Argentine in genetics, medicine 
and food processing, just to mention a few. 
2013年6月4日下午正在访华期间的阿根廷科学、技术和生
产创新部长利诺.巴拉尼奥先生在阿根廷 驻华使馆举行记者招待
会。巴拉利奥列举了中国与阿根廷在科技创新领域的多个合作项
目，并认为 中阿之间的经济互补体现在多个领域，科技合作的前
景也非常广阔。
二十多家中外媒体应邀参加了本次招待会
图文：朝亮
Photo and Text: Charles 
丹麦大使裴德盛先生为获胜者颁奖
Mr. Friis Arne Petersen, Danish 
Ambassador, handing over the prize 
to the winner. 
立陶宛的双庆活动图文：任云飞
Photo and Text: Ren Yunfei 
The Lithuanian Embassy has held a concert and reception on 8th of July at the Centre for the Performing 
Arts to celebrate her National Day and the taking on the duties of the rotating presidency of the EU. 
7月8日晚, 立陶宛驻华大使馆在国家大剧院成功举办了为庆祝立陶宛国家日及担任欧盟轮值主席国的招待会。 
立陶宛【国家日】７月６日（１２５３年７月６日立陶宛国王明陶卡斯加冕）。
Lithua nia ’s double celebrati on 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ms. Lina Antanaviciene met the honored guests. Lina Antanaviciene said in her 
speech: "Back in 1253, on July 6th, 760 years and 2 days ago, Duke of Lithuania Mindaugas was crown as King of Lithuania. 
Lithuanian lands were united by him, creating the first unified Lithuanian State already in 13th century. On July 1st 2013, 8 days ago, 
Lithuania, an independent, modern and prosperous European state took over its first ever Presidency of the greatest Project of XXI 
century unified Europe C the European Union. 
" 
立陶宛驻华大使馆特命全权大使：丽娜・安塔纳维切涅，迎接到场嘉宾.丽娜・安塔纳维切涅大使在致辞中说到：”1240年7月6日， 立陶
宛成立， 2013年7月1日， 立陶宛首次作为欧盟28个成员国的轮值主席和欧盟共同执行欧盟的事务， 这是立陶宛人民的荣欣......“ 
The "Baltic Quartet" has specially arrived to Beijing for the 
"double celebration". 
为双庆活动特地从立陶宛到京的"波罗的海吉它四重奏"为活动助
兴。
Nearly 200 invited guests enjoyed the performance. 
倾听他们演奏的近200多名嘉宾为他们的演出热烈鼓掌

EMBASSY 使馆之窗 
Present of friendshiP 
DEBUT OF PHILIPPINE CHILDREN’S CHOIR IN BEIJING
友谊的献礼
――菲律宾罗布克合唱团唱响国家大剧院
Wine Promotion event 
At the hungAriAn embAssy
匈牙利葡萄酒会图文：朝亮
Photo and Text: Charles
使馆之窗EMBASSYPresent of friendshiP 
DEBUT OF PHILIPPINE CHILDREN’S CHOIR IN BEIJING
友谊的献礼
――菲律宾罗布克合唱团唱响国家大剧院
Wine Promotion event 
At the hungAriAn embAssy
匈牙利葡萄酒会图文：朝亮
Photo and Text: Charles
To celebrate International Children’s Day and the Year of 
Friendship between the Philippines and China, the Loboc Children’s 
Choir hit the stage of the National Centre for Performing Arts on 6th 
of June 2013. 

The Loboc troup, consisting of some 19 children, amazed the 
audience with their performance based on Philippines folk traditions. 

In her speech, Philippine Ambassador Sonia C. Brady, 
emphasized that the dance and songs performed by the children can 
be seen as a kind of gift to China from the Philippines. 

She expressed her hopes that the relations will show a peaceful 
and healthy development between the two countries during the 
coming years. 

为庆祝菲中友好交流年，纪念国际儿童节，6月8日晚，菲律宾罗布克
童声合唱团在中国国家大剧院献上了一场名为“友谊的献礼 ”的音乐会，19位来自菲律宾的小学生，身着特色的民族服装，献上清新纯净的天籁
之音。

菲律宾驻华大使巴西里W致欢迎辞，她说，我们的孩子远涉重洋给
你们带来的歌曲作为礼物，他们的歌声代表了所有渴望交朋友渴望过上
和平美好生活的儿童的心声。因此，我们让合唱团在国际儿童节之际在
中国演唱，向中国人民传达我们和平的讯息，向全中国儿童发出我们友
谊的讯息，来表达渴求和平与友谊的未来。

30 THE WORLD AND CHINA 

Photo and Text: Charles 图文：朝亮 
To popularise the Hungarian wine culture and wine production among the Chinese consumers and traders, the Hungarian 
Embassy has organized a Wine Promotion Event in its building on 7th of June. 
The visitors had the chance to taste several Hungarian wines, among others the famous brand: “Tokaji” which is also known as “the 
wine of kings and the king of wines”.

为推广匈牙利葡萄酒，让更多的葡萄酒爱好者有机会品尝到匈牙利葡萄酒，匈牙利驻华大使馆于2013年6月7日举办匈牙利葡萄酒会，参
展单位分别展示了他们的产品，并给葡萄酒爱好者讲解匈牙利葡萄酒。


菲律宾驻华大使巴西里W致欢迎辞


罗布克合唱团小朋友精彩表演 

参展商向葡萄酒爱好者讲解相关信息 匈牙利著名的都凯甜酒Tokaji

THE WORLD AND CHINA 31


使馆之窗 

EMBASSY 



SWEDISH NATIONAL DAY


瑞典驻华大使馆举办国庆节活动 

Photo and Text: Wang Jia图文：王佳 

The Swedish Embassy celebrated the Swedish National Day on 6th of June at the Swedish Embassy.

2013年6月6日，瑞典驻华大使馆举办国庆节活动。

Ambassador Mr. Lars Freden welcomes the guests 
Performance of an ABBA formation 
Midsummer Night Style 
Children toys 
瑞典驻华大使罗睿德先生致欢迎辞
ABBA组合原班乐队表演
仲夏节花柱
儿童游戏区
SERBIAN FILM FESTIVAL OPENS
塞尔维亚电影展开幕
Photo and Text: Charles 图文：朝亮 

2013塞尔维亚电影展6月18日在香河园子百老汇电影中心开幕，开幕影片为
《巴尔干半岛雨的气味》。本片根据戈尔达娜.库伊奇撰写的畅销小说改编，讲述
来自萨拉热窝的西班牙系犹太一家人从一战开始到二战结束期间的动荡生活。 

The 2013 Serbian Film Festival was opened at Xiangheyuan Broadway 

Cinematheque on June 18th with showing the film The Scent of Rain in the 
Balkans". The film was based on the bestseller of Gordana Kuic, telling the life 

of a Spanish family from Sarajevo during the turbulence between the beginning 

of the first world war and the end of the second world war. 


中国国家新闻出版广电
总局电影局副局长张玲女士
致辞 

Zhang Ling, deputy 
director of the State 
Administration of Press, 
Publication, Radio, Film 
and Television , is making a 
speech

32 THE WORLD AND CHINA

THE WORLD AND CHINA 33 
代表团合影(右一为塞尔维亚总统文化顾问帕维欧维克先生，右二为电影女主角，右三位为卡让克亚基克，塞尔维亚国家广播电影局主席
以及该影片导演莫各若维克先生。 ) 
Group photo of the delegation, from right to left, the head of Serbian delegation, Advisor to the President of the Republic of Serbia for 
Culture, Mr. Radoslav Pavlovic, Actress Ms. Tamara Dragi.evi., Mr. Dejan Karaklajic, President of the Governing Board of Film Center 
Serbia and Mr. Miroslav Mogorovi., Film Producer 

34 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 35 
EMBASSY 使馆之窗 
习近平举行仪式欢迎越南国家主席张晋创访华
张晋创与中方友人亲切握手交谈越南前任胡志明主席护士发言，表达了对越南的深厚感情
张晋创与中方友人见面
Vi.t Nam kh .ng quên tình b.ng 
h.u c.a Tru ng Qu .c 
应中国国家主席习近平的邀请，越南国家主席张晋创于2013年6月19日至21日对中国进行国事访问。访华期间， 
越南驻华大使馆与中国人民对外友好协会在越南驻华大使馆共同举办越南国家主席与中方友人见面会。应邀出席的有
一百二十多名中国专家、学者、顾问一级媒体代表。 
张晋创主席在发言中提到， 在访华前，他特别要求有关部门安排了这场活动， 他十分想和这些为越中两国人民的
友谊作出贡献的中国人见见面， 特别是那些在抗美援越战斗中共同与越南人民一起作战的老兵以及他们的家属会面。
Nh.n l.i m.i c.a Ch. t.ch n..c C.ng hòa Nhan dan Trung Hoa T.p C.n Bình, Ch. t.ch n..c C.ng hòa x. h.i ch. ngh.a Vi.t 
Nam Tr..ng T.n Sang .. th.m c.p Nhà n..c n..c C.ng hòa Nhan dan Trung Hoa t. ngày 19 ..n ngày 21 tháng 6 n.m 2013. 
Trong th.i gian . th.m Trung Qu.c, ..i s. quán Vi.t Nam t.i Trung Qu.c cùng v.i hi.p h.i H.u ngh. ..i ngo.i nhan dan Trung 
Qu.c .. t. ch.c cu.c g.p m.t than m.t gi.a ch. t.ch n..c Vi.t Nam và các nhan s. Trung Qu.c t.i ..i s. quán Vi.t Nam t.i 
Trung Qu.c. .. có h.n 120 ..i bi.u là các chuyên gia, h.c s., c. v.n truy.n th.ng c.p cao c.a Trung Qu.c ..n d. theo l.i m.i. 
Ch. t.ch Tr..ng T.n Sang trong bài phát bi.u .. nh.c ..n vi.c, tr..c khi sang Trung Qu.c, .ng .. yêu c.u các c. quan ban 
ngành có liên quan s.p x.p cho .ng bu.i g.p m.t này, ch. t.ch n..c bày t. mong mu.n ...c g.p g. các ..ng chí, nh.ng ng..i 
b.n Trung Qu.c .. có nh.ng c.ng hi.n l.n lao vì tình h.u ngh. gi.a nhan dan hai n..c Vi.t Trung. ..c bi.t là mong mu.n ...c 
g.p g. các ..ng chí và than nhan c.a các ..ng chí c.u chi.n binh .. cùng v.i nhan dan Vi.t Nam tham gia chi.n ..u ch.ng M. 
c.u n..c giành ..c l.p. 
六小龄童向大家介绍越南版西游记张晋创向中国友人赠送礼物
越南， 
没有忘记中国的友情
文：Nagy Lin 图：朝亮

36 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 37 
EMBASSY 使馆之窗
居里夫人奖活动图文：任云飞
Photo and Text: Ren Yunfei 
波兰驻华大使馆与南开大学物理科学院携手，2014年共同举
办全国居里杯青少年物理锦标赛，暨2014国际青年物理学家锦标
赛IYPT（International Young Physicists’Tournament）中国队
选拔赛。 物理竞赛新闻媒体推介会于2013年7月3日在北京波兰驻
华大使馆举办。 
玛丽・居里是第一位获得诺贝尔奖的女性，更是第一位两次获
得诺贝尔奖的人。 1867年11月7日生于波兰华沙的一个正直、爱国
的教师家庭。 她完成了近代科学史上最重要的发现之一：放射性
元素镭，并奠定了现代放射化学的基础。 钋，这个居里夫人发现的
元素周期表上第84位元素，其命名更是因居里夫人对自己祖国波
兰的热爱，而取自于‘波兰’一词的词根发音。 在1903年获得诺贝
尔物理奖后，居里夫人又在 1911年她又荣获了诺贝尔化学奖。 
此次居里杯青少年物理锦标赛暨2014国际青年物理学家锦标赛
IYPT中国队选拔赛，会进一步推动中国参加国际一流物理锦标赛
的角逐，让居里夫人孜孜不倦地在物理领域的钻研精神鼓励高中生
的学术梦想，促进中国高中生体验并最终在国际物理赛事上竞技. 
波兰使馆文化参赞：梅西亚讲话
南开大学物理科学院长 ：李川勇，介绍此次比赛规则、模式、流程
南开大学物理科学院：宋峰教授
The Embassy of Poland and the Physical Sciences Institute 
of Nankai University will jointly hold the 2014 Curie Cup and 
National Youth Physics Championship 2014 International Youth 
Tournament IYPT (International Young Physicists' Tournament) 
Chinese Team Preselection Competition. The introduction of the 
competitions for the media was held at the Polish Embassy on 
3rd of July. 
Marie Curie was the first woman to win the Nobel Prize 
and she was the first to win the Nobel Prize twice. She was 
born in Warsaw, Poland on November 7, 1867 in a honest 
and patriotic family of teachers. She has achieved one of the 
greatest discoveries of our age: discovered the radioactive 
decay of radium, and with this discocery she has laid down 
the foundations of modern radiochemistry. Marie Curie also 
discovered the 84th elements of the periodic table, which was 
named, after Poland, Polonium due to her love for her country. 
In 1903 she won the Nobel Prize in Physics and in 1911 she won 
the prize again, this time in Chemistry. 
The Curie Cup Youth Championship and 2014 IYPT China 
International Youth Team Preselection Competition will further 
boost China to play on this first-class physics championship 
field. Marie Curie worked tirelessly in physics to encourage high 
school students to pursue their academic dreams. Her spirit will 
help Chinese high school students to study physics and to do 
their utmost at the competition. 
Marie Curie Award Program 
庆祝马达加斯加独立35周年
中国外交部部长助理张明.(右一)与马达加斯加驻华大使维克托・希科尼纳先生（右二）共同举杯庆祝。
嘉宾与穿着特色服饰的舞蹈演员共兴
中国书法家现场表演书法助兴。
L’assistant du ministre du Département des Affaires étrangères de Chine ZHANG Ming et l'Ambassadeur de Madagascar en Chine M. 
Victor SIKONINA lèvent le verre pour proposer un toast de célébration. 
Featured guests had a dance together with ladies in costumes. Les calligraphes chinois produisent le spectacle de calligraphie 
pour le plaisir. 
Célébrez le 35e anniversaire de l’indépendance de Madagascar 
图文：任云飞
Photo and Text: Ren Yunfei

38 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 39 
EMBASSY 使馆之窗 
En el 5 de julio de 2013, la recepcion inauguró con la reproduccion de los himnos nacionales de 
Venezuela y China en la embajada de Venezuela. 
Venezuela fue colonizada por Espa.a en 1567. Y declaró su independencia en el 5 de julio de 1811. 
Fundó la república en 1830. China y Venezuela establecieron relaciones diplomáticas en el 28 de junio de 
1974. 
在委内瑞拉大使馆 2013年7月5日,招待会在两国国歌的演奏中开始。 
委内瑞拉1567年沦为西班牙殖民地，1811年7月5日独立 。 1830年建立共和国。1974年6月28日同中国建
交。 
Dirigentes del Ministerio de Relaciónes 
Ex ter iores de China y el embajador de 
Venezuela en China Sr. Iván Zerpa Guerrero. 
中国外交部领导与委内瑞拉驻华大使伊万・塞
尔帕・格雷罗先生。Iván Zerpa Guerrero 
Los invitados de la Conferencia tiene la 
oportunidad de ver biografías de Hugo Chavez, 
quien fue el Padre de la Patria. 
招待会上嘉宾有机会看到已故国父查韦斯的生
平介绍
委内瑞拉独立宣言签署两百年零二周年纪念招待会 
Recepción para el 202 Aniversario de la Firmacion de 
la Declaración de la Independencia de Venezuela. 
Photo and Text: Ren Yunfei 图文：任云飞 
On July 17, the Embassy of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas organized a reception in Hotel Marriott 
to celebrate the 40 years anniversary of its independence. 
7月17日晚，巴哈马驻华使馆在海航酒店举行的庆祝巴哈马独立40周年招待会。
巴哈马独立40周年招待会
Photo and Text: Charles 图文:朝亮 
Celebrati ng 40 Years of 
Indepe nde nce of the Bahamas 
Minister of Justice and Chief Prosecutor of the Bahamas 
delivering her welcome speech 
专程来华出席招待会的巴总检察长兼司法部长吉布森致欢迎辞
Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr. Xie Hangsheng, was among the 
chief invitees of the reception 
外交部副部长谢杭生应邀出席招待会
Musicians from the Bahamas performed their local songs by 
singing and playing on instruments 
巴哈马音乐家现场弹奏并演唱巴哈马音乐
Art pieces from the Bahamas exhibited in the main hall have 
received special attention of the guests 
大厅中十余幅巴哈马艺术作品格外吸引来宾

使馆之窗 

EMBASSY


摩洛哥驻华使馆活动


Photo and Text: Ren Yunfei图文：任云飞 

2013年 7月 30日，摩洛哥驻华使馆举办庆祝摩洛哥国王穆罕默德六世登基十四周年及中摩建
交 55周年招待会
........ ...... ........ ....... ...... ......... ..... ...... ... ... ...... .... ....... .... ....... ....... ........ .... 
2013 
... ..... .. ........ ..... .. ..... ... ........ ........ ....... ..... ... ........... 

摩洛哥王国位于非洲西北部，西部滨临大西洋, 北部与西班牙隔海相望。

摩洛哥是历史悠久的文明古国。摩洛哥最早的居民是柏柏尔人，占目前人口的20%, 80%是7世纪时入住的阿拉伯人。现今摩洛哥
Alaouite王朝是在17世纪开始的，今日摩洛哥国王穆罕默德六世，其祖先是伊斯兰教先知穆罕默德，因此和约旦国王、文莱苏丹是远房亲
戚关系。

穆罕默德六世从1999年登基后加强国家的民主化，对内试图缓和贫困和保证社会治安，对外持比较缓和的伊斯兰国家政策。摩洛哥是
中东与欧美对话的一个重要中间人。1956年3月从法国的统治中独立。

中国与摩洛哥虽然远隔千山万水，但两国友好交往历史悠久。早在公元８世纪，中国唐朝的杜环就到过摩洛哥。１４世纪时，中摩两国
的大旅行家汪大渊和伊本 ・白图泰几乎在同一时期“互访”。中国古代文明的许多成就，如造纸术和火药等，都是经摩洛哥传至欧洲的。自
１９５８年于中国正式建立外交关系。


摩洛哥
特色佳肴
......... .. ..... ...... .... .... ... .... ....... ... .. ...... ....... ..... ...... ..... .... .... .... :.... 

国家卫生与计划生育委员会主任李斌女士在外交部副部长翟隽的陪同下应邀出席了双庆活动。

40 THE WORLD AND CHINA 


42 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 43 
EMBASSY 使馆之窗 
“厄瓜多尔国家周”7月26日下午在北京三里屯ＳＯＨＯ拉丁美洲和加勒比中心隆重开幕。
厄瓜多尔大使在接受记者采访时说： “厄尔瓦多今天的活动是“厄尔瓦多文化，经济旅游
等系列活动的一个开始， 整个活动持续一周。” 
出席活动的厄瓜多尔孩子
厄瓜多尔国家周
Ecuad or Nati onal Week 
厄瓜多尔位于赤道线上，也是世界的中部。纬度为O。. 
太阳直射，没有阴影，四季如春。用已发给你的几本书的图片
厄尔瓦多的世界文化遗产， 手工草帽。由于外国游客见巴拿马人多戴这种草帽，故称之为巴拿马草帽，厄瓜多尔是一个充
满奇花异草的神秘的国家，这种用一种不知名的草编织成的巴拿马草帽，是厄瓜多尔主要的产业之一. 
来宾与展示草帽的女孩们合影
文：Nagy Lin 

44 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 45 
EMBASSY 使馆之窗
您知道怎样穿和服吗？ 
着物の着方をご存知でしょう？ 
7月的一个周六， 在日本驻华大使馆新闻文化中心， 人们有
机会欣赏到日本和服的穿戴演示。 
使馆新闻文化中心三上正裕公使（Minister， Masahiro 
Mikami）介绍说：日本著名和服设计家富田伸明先生， 专从日本
来到北京为他设计的和服以及和服的穿戴方式做了介绍。 
富田伸明先生曾先后在大连， 上海做过和服演示活动。 
富田伸明先生挑选出的第一名和服试穿者。 
7月のある土曜日に、 在中国日本国大使^のニュ`ス文化センタ
`で、着物の着方をテ`マにしたショ`が行われました。 
使^ニュ`ス文化センタ`の三上正裕公使（Minister, Masahiro 
Mikami）によると、日本で著名な着物デザイナ`の富田伸明氏は
もっぱらに日本から北京に来てOした着物及び着物の着方につ
いて案内しました。 
富田伸明氏は大B、 上海で着物ショ`を催したことがあります。
富田伸明氏にx出された初めの着物着者。 
从试穿者那儿得知，和服的腰带绑的很紧，很难弯腰， 走路的步子也迈
不大。 
今年的研究结果表明,和服的腰带不仅能平均地压迫身体， 使人体的血压
下降，还可以将胃往上托， 更是一种科学卫生的做法。 
着者によると、着物の・しっかり`られるので、腰が曲がりがたく、i
幅が小さいです。 
今年の研究Y果によると、着物の・暇一に体を抑Rして、血Rを下げるこ
とができるだけでなく、胃を上へ上げるので、健康に役に立つ更に科学的な作
り方です。 
先穿上一件白色短衫。用一个跟细绸
带固定所需要的肥瘦。 
白い短いシャツを着て、いuリボ
ンで必要な太さを固定します。
着物を着て、いuリボンでLさ方向
で必要なLさで`ります。
白い硬い胴回りリボンを欷堡蓼埂
赤いリボンで固定します。
カラ`リボンで
化し、~を
けます。　
Kわります
穿上和服， 再用一个细绸带长短系
住所需长短。
用一个红带固定
系上白色硬肚带
在彩带上加固， 
系上绳带。
最后穿戴完毕
在白色硬带上系上彩带（一般2米长）。 
并在后面打好结。
白硬い胴回りリボンでカラ`リボン（Lさが一般に2メ`トルほ
ど）を欷薄⑨幛墙Yびます。
第1步: 
第2步: 
第3步: 
第4步: 
第6步: 
第5步: 
文：Nagy Lin 
图：任云飞 

文化视野 

CULTURAL PERSPECTIvE

The “Three Corner number DiCTionary” makes iT more ConvenienT 
To LookuP Chinese WorDs

用《三角号码字典》, 查字更简便



今年6月9日，在福州举行了《三角号码排列・学生规范字典》首
发仪式，这是许嘉璐（原全国人大副主任）为首席顾问、李行健（中
国辞书学会顾问）主编、中国大百科全书出版社出版的。它收字
8109个，涵盖教育部规定掌握的3500个常用字。 

A ceremony was held on June 9, 2013 to celebrate the 
publication of “Arrangement of Three Corner Numbers: A 
Standard Dictionary for Students”. This dictionary invited Xu 
Jialu (the former Deputy Director of NPC) as its chief consultant 
and Li Xingjian (consultant of China Dictionary Society) as its 
chief editor. Being published by Encyclopedia of China Press, 
this dictionary contains 8,109 Chinese words, covering 3,500 
frequently used Chinese characters. All of these characters 
should be mastered by Chinese learners according to Ministry 
of Education.

“三角号码排检法”为陈以强发明，比“四角号码排检法”简单
易学，也弥补了“汉语拼音排检法”的“不识莫查”的缺憾，变成
“看字即查”。它根据每个汉字的右上、左下、右下3个角，各编一 

4
446 
66 T
TTH
HHE 
EE W
WWO
OOR
RRL
LLD 
DD A
AAN
NND 
DD C
CCH
HHI
IINA
NANA

Text and photo : Fang Yuqiang

图文: 方毓强 

个0至6的阿拉伯数字，组成一个3位数，再根据3位数查字。其编
码的口诀极简单：“1横2竖3点捺，4叉5角6框架”记住这2句口诀
便可看字编码了，如：三：110；角：522；号：602；码：562。从未学
过“三角号码排检法”的人10分钟内即可学会，受用终身。如此每
个汉字只需3、5秒即可查到。 

Comparing with the “Four Corner Method”, the “Three 
Corner Method” is simpler and easier to learn. It complements 
the shortcomings of the “Pinyin Method” that readers can not 
look up the meanings of a Chinese character unless they can 
pronounce the character correctly. According to the “Three 
Corner Method”, a number ranging from 0~6 would be given 
to each Chinese character based on the upper right corner, 
lower left corner and lower right corner in each character. A 
3-digit number would be formed for each Chinese character, 
and readers could look up its meanings according to this 3-digit 
number. There is a formula for encoding characters, which is 
simple to learn: “1 horizontal stroke, 2 vertical strokes and 3 
falling strokes”, “4 crosses, 5 corners and 6 frames”. You can 
encode a Chinese character as long as you can learn this 
formula by heart. For example, “110” is the code for Chinese 
character “San”, “522” for “Jiao”, “602” for “Hao” and “562” for 
“Ma”. Anyone could grasp the “Three Corner Method” within 10 
minutes. It takes only 3 to 5 seconds for readers to look up a 
Chinese character in the dictionary.

这尤其适合普通话发音不准的港澳同胞、海外华侨、外国人
等。尤其是外国人，开始往往不会拼音和书写，对“汉语拼音排检
法”、“部首+笔画排检法”都无所适从，而《三角号码排列・学生规
范字典》却能为他们解决难题。 

This method is very useful for people from Hong Kong 
and Macau, overseas Chinese and foreigners, who can not 
pronounce Mandarin correctly. Particularly, foreigners can not 
pronounce and write Chinese characters when they just began 
to learn Chinese. They would be completely at a loss when 
looking up Chinese characters in a dictionary with the “Pinyin 
Method” or based on the “radicals and strokes” of Chinese 
characters. The “Arrangement of Three Corner Numbers: A 
Standard Dictionary for Students” is designed for foreigners 
and would help them overcome the difficulties when learning 
Chinese characters. 


2001年1月，时任福建省长的习近平（右）在福建社科院观看陈以强（左二）演示“三角号码
排检法”。（陈以强提供） 

In January 2001, Xi Jinping (Right), then Governor of Fujian Province, watches Chen 
Yiqiang (Second from left) demonstrating the “Three Corner Number Method for Looking Up 
Chinese Characters” at the Academy of Social Sciences, Fujian Province. (The photo was 
provided by Chen Yiqiang.)

今年6月，方毓强（右）在福州采访陈以强时的合
影。 

Fang Yuqiang (Right) poses for a photo with 
Chen Yiqiang after an interview in Fuzhou in June 
2013.

陈以强,福建省社会科学院研
究员，连任福建省政协委员10年。 

Chen Yiqiang, a research 
fellow of the Academy of Social 
Sciences, Fujian Province, has 
been a CPPCC member of Fujian 
Province for 10 years.

1983年出版《三角号码字典》；
1993年又出版了《三角号码简明词
典》和《三角号码学生字典》。他被
评为对国家有突出贡献的专家，享
受国务院特殊津贴。10年来他又不
断改进，从而出版了《三角号码排
列・学生规范字典》 

He published the “Three Corner 
Number Dictionary ” in 1983, 
and the “Three Corner Number 
Concise Dictionary” and the “Three 
Corner Number Dictionary for 
Students” in 1993. He is awarded 
as a specialist with outstanding 
contributions to China and is 
granted the Special Allowance 
of State Council. In the past 10 
years, he has made continuous 
improvement on his dictionaries 
and published the “Arrangement 
of Three Corner Numbers: A 
Standard Dictionary for Students” 
in this year. 

T
TTH
HHE 
EE W
WWO
OOR
RRL
LLD 
DD A
AAN
NND 
DD C
CCH
HHI
IINA 
NANA 4
447
77



文化视野

CULTURAL PERSPECTIvE

先辈的旗帜

－－中国70年前的缅甸远征军

70年前,一支中国军队主动出国进入缅甸作战。他们 衣衫褴褛,他们装备落后,被英美嘲讽为“乞丐军队”。 然而这已经是这个国家当时
最精锐的军队。他们就是中国远征军。英美认为他们在日军面前将仍然不堪一击。此后他们经历过惨败,最终也获得了来之不易的胜利。 
在三年的作战中,他们已经拿生命赋予了这个国家新的 尊严,让全世界改变了对中国军人,乃至中国的看法。

 今天,昨天,始终有一面先辈的旗帜。 

这套图片主要选自由章东磐主编,汉唐阳光文化发 展有限公司策划,山西人民出版社出版的《国家记 忆》以及《国家记忆二》两书。《国
家记忆》是从美国国家档案馆馆藏数万张战争影像资料中,精选最有代表意义和表现力的数百张图文汇集成书。这些图片也主要由当时
在中缅印战场的美军通信兵第164照相连 所拍摄,真实再现了中国远征军和抗日战争时期中国 军民的面貌。


图为1943 年11月27日,在中美训练营,中国士兵正在练习实弹射
击。美军通信兵(U.S.Army Signal Corps)拍摄。
1942年3月,日军2个步兵大队将7000多英军包围在仁安羌,英
军告急,中国远征军新38师第113团连夜增援,击退日军,救出被围
英军。仁安羌大捷,不仅使远征军,也使中国在国际上取得了良好的
声誉。图为1942年5月31日正在攻击仁安羌的日军,背后是仁安羌
地区所 树立的油井井架。
美军教官在中国云南设立了中美训练中心,主要训练部队副团
长以下的营连排级干部, 1943年,1944年先后训练约1万人,其中也
包含一些士兵。图为1944年2月12日,美军教官在训练中国士兵快
速躲避空袭的技巧。摄影师:上等兵寇科瑞克美军通信兵 (U.S.A 
rmy Signal Corps)拍摄。华盛顿国防部公共关系局准予公开。
为云南省南部怒江前线驻守的中国士兵们从伙食桶里盛饭,这
是由后勤伙食人员送到前沿阵地的。这里是中国军队发动的滇西
大反攻战役的最前线,这场战役也是争夺滇缅公路控制权大攻势的
一个组成部分。
图为1944年9月13日,中国士兵在机场使用最原始的方法给1
架美军B 29型战略轰炸机加油。
在滇西战场,横档在中国远征军前的第一道障碍就是日军的松
山要塞。图为1944年6月22日,向日军发动冲锋的中国远征军士
兵。
1942年初,日军入侵缅甸,印度受到威胁,英国在远东的形势变得
相当危急。应英国政府要求,1942年2月,为了保卫中国唯一的生命
线滇缅公路,中国远征军赶赴缅甸作战。图为 1945年1月31日拍摄
的滇缅公路。
1942年2月,中国军队第5军,第66军,第6军10万大军开进缅甸。
图为1942年初开赴缅甸 作战的中国远征军。 
4
448 
88 T
TTH
HHE 
EE W
WWO
OOR
RRL
LLD 
DD A
AAN
NND 
DD C
CCH
HHI
IINA
NANA

T
TTH
HHE 
EE W
WWO
OOR
RRL
LLD 
DD A
AAN
NND 
DD C
CCH
HHI
IINA 
NANA 4
449
99


文化视野

CULTURAL PERSPECTIvE


松山大战,中国远征军在陡峭的山崖上艰难向上攀爬攻击日军阵地,但是遭到日军机枪
正面,侧面交叉火力打击,损失惨重。图为从怒江前线被担架抬下来的中国伤兵。
在缅甸列多公路上,1名中国驻印军独立
第1个团(原为驻印军直属化学团)的士兵 
携带着受伤的野猴在行军。他们的主要任
务是配属美军火神特种部队作战。 
松山,龙陵,腾冲是日军在缅北三大玉碎战,虽然日军被全歼,但是
强攻日军坚固要塞的中国远征军也几乎流尽了血。图为1944年9月
4日,在中国远征军第53军即将向腾冲日军发起冲锋前,美军联络组
把自己的钢盔送给中国士兵。这些钢盔将优先配备给冲锋在最前
边的士兵。美军通信兵(U.S.A rmy Signal Corps)拍摄。
1945年2月26日,中国驻印军第50师副师长正在命令1个侦察
排前出巡查。摄影师:谢瑞 尔。美军通信兵
1945年2月24日,缅甸战事大局已定,中国驻印军坦克第1营正
在经过缅甸腊戎向前方挺进继续扩大战果。美军通信兵(U.S.A 
rmy Signal Corps)拍摄。华盛顿国防部公共 关系局准予公开。
早在1943年10月,在印度的中国驻印军就从缅北向日军发动
了大反攻,行动代号是人猿泰山。1944年12月11日,在缅甸八莫,
中国驻印军第3榴弹炮营第9连正在向日军阵地开火。摄影师:莱
普尼茨。美军通信兵(U.S.A rmy Signal Corps)拍摄。
5
550 
00 T
TTH
HHE 
EE W
WWO
OOR
RRL
LLD 
DD A
AAN
NND 
DD C
CCH
HHI
IINA
NANA


8年抗战中国军队惨重伤亡,极为低下的待遇和几近于无的军
饷都让这支军队在征兵上困难重重,所以在这场战争中,在中国军
队有很多对待遇要求不高,服从命令,但是年纪很小的少年兵,甚至
是儿童兵。1944年9月2日,这是中国驻印军新6军第14师42团的,
年仅12岁的云南小兵李贝乐,他已经入伍1年,是一位冲锋枪手,这个
孩子将 和其他的少年兵一起翻越热带山林,走向战场。
1945年2月5日,印缅战前司令及中国驻印军总指挥丹.索尔登
中将和中国远征军司令卫立煌在木司检阅已经胜利会师的中国
远征军和中国驻印军,陪同的有新1军军长孙立人和远征军副司令
黄琪翔中将。
美军火神特种部队的1名士兵刚刚从缅甸来到昆明。在等待车
辆的时候,他在和1个中国小男孩聊天。
1945年5月21日,位于印度阿萨姆邦的中国军队阵亡烈士墓。


在列多公路旁的一座康复营,史迪威将军向一群中国残疾
军人脱帽致敬。这些伤残军人将在这里学习编织,铁匠等职业
技能以便脱下军装,重返社会。美军通信兵 (U.S.A rmy Signal 
Corps)拍摄。美国战争信息办公室发布。
每一个小小的墓碑下面都有一个让家人魂牵梦绕的年轻人的亡
魂。正如参加过远征军的诗人穆旦所说的,虽然他们的身体还挣
扎着想要回家,而无名的野花已在头上开满。

T
TTH
HHE 
EE W
WWO
OOR
RRL
LLD 
DD A
AAN
NND 
DD C
CCH
HHI
IINA 
NANA 5
551
11


52 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 53 
TOURISM 畅游天下 
七朝古都--开封
Kaifeng: An Ancient Capital of Seven Dynasties 
Kaifeng, an ancient capital of seven dynasties, boasts a 
history of more than 2,700 years. Located in Henan Province 
and by the Yellow River, Kaifeng is an important birthplace of the 
Chinese nation. It is one of the 8 ancient capitals of China, one 
of the 24 famous historical cities of China, an excellent tourist 
city of China, and a city renowned for Chinese calligraphy and 
chrysanthemum. 
Founded 2,755 years ago, Kaifeng used to be the capital of 
China for more than 2,300 years. It is renowned as “the capital 
of seven dynasties”. In the old city of Kaifeng, one-fourth of the 
downtown areas were covered by rivers and canals. According 
to the historical records, Kaifeng was called “Bianzhou” in 
ancient times. It is a historical city in China second only to 
Suzhou and Hangzhou. Kaifeng is the first Chinese city with 
foreign immigrants. In Northern Song Dynasty, some Jewish 
immigrants went to China via Sindhu (India) and settled down in 
this prosperous capital city. 
千年古寺--大相国寺铁塔
中国道教史上具有重要地位的宫观--延庆观
文：曹寅 陈雷
宫殿建筑-龙亭
开封古城墙
山陕甘会馆 
国宝-千手观音
古都夜色
清明上河图(局部),中国十大传世名画之一。为北宋风俗画，描写北宋都城汴梁（现开封市）

54 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 55 
TOURISM 畅游天下 
开封，七朝古都，迄今已有2700余年的历史。地处河南，黄河之滨，是中华民族的主要发祥地之一。开封是中国八大古都之一、中国首批
公布的24座历史文化名城之一、中国优秀旅游城市、中国书法名城、中国菊花名城等。 
开封迄今已有2755年的建城史和2300余年的建都史，素有“七朝都会”之称.市区水域面积占老城区面积的1/4。史有“一苏二杭三汴
州”之说。开封还是中国最早外国人移居的城市。北宋时，一批犹太移民经天竺（印度）迁徙到当时繁华宋都开封。
宋都御街再现宋代御街风貌
开封朱仙镇木版年画是中国木版年画的鼻祖 开封汴绣历史悠久，素有“国宝”之称 
开封市区水系风韵
开封书店街
北门-安远门
开封小笼包子
千年夜市

56 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 57 
TOURISM 畅游天下 
越南一瞥
Photo：Nagy Wang Viktor 图：维克多 
Viet nam gla nce 
m.t th oáng Vi.t Nam 
胡志明纪念馆
胡志明旧居
胡志明市夜景越南街上主要交通工具
越南胡志明市邮局（设计者：埃菲尔铁塔设计师--居斯塔夫・埃菲尔） 
胡志明市机场接机的等候人群

畅游天下 


TOURISM


越南千年巨龟


越南特色碉楼民居

越南河内文庙抗美时期用来突袭美军的地道

58 THE WORLD AND CHINA 

THE WORLD AND CHINA 59


60 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 61 
TOURISM 畅游天下 
Hangzhou Város Külügyi Hivatalának Kulturális Együttm.k.dési K.zpontja július 21- 
én .Pillantás Magyarországra” címmel szervezett rendezvényt a város k.nyvtárában. 
A rendezvény az év elején megkezdett .Hangzhou kitekint a világra” címet visel. 
rendezvénysorozat része volt, ez alkalommal a Hangzhou-i polgárok Magyarországról 
kaphattak képet. 
7月21日杭州外办对外文化交流中心在杭州图书馆交流中心举办“杭州市民看匈牙利”的活
动。 
这是自今年初中心展开“杭州市民看世界”系列活动的一部分。 这次活动介绍的是匈牙
利。 
中心主任罗魏先生先本刊介绍说：“ 从今年起， 杭州人不用出进家门，就能了解到世界风
情， 并与外国使节直接对话。匈牙利我们举办的5个国家的介绍” 
杭州市民看匈牙利
Mag yar ors zág Hangzhouba n 
匈牙利驻上海总领事库蒂 . 拉斯洛先生向观众展示匈
牙利特产。中国驻匈牙利前任文化参赞刘文卿先生为嘉宾
做匈语翻译。 
大约250人有机会倾听到匈牙利的音乐， 品尝匈牙利
的葡萄酒， 欣赏匈牙利的风景图片，听到匈牙利驻上海总
领事用匈语向大家介绍， 并回答观众们向他们提出的各种
有关匈牙利的情况。
Magyarország Sanghaji f.konzulja, Kuti László 
úr, magyar termékeket mutatott be, a rendezvényen a 
tolmácsolásról Liu Wenqing úr, Kína korábbi budapesti 
kulturális tanácsosa gondoskodott. 
A Kulturális Együttm.k.dési K.zpont vezet.je, 
Luo Wei úr maga z inunk nak elmondt a, ho gy a 
rendezvénysorozat célja, hogy úgy mutassa be a világ 
egyes országait a Hangzhou-i polgároknak, hogy 
azoknak ne kelljen elhagyniuk a várost, ugyanakkor 
l e h et . s é g et kapjanak ar r a, h o gy dip l o m at ák kal 
személyesen találkozhassanak. A bemutatott országok 
sorában Magyarország volt az 5. 
Kína korábbi magyarországi nagyk.vete, Zhu 
Zusou úr, az általa írt Magyarország útik.nyvet 
hozta ajándékba a résztvev.knek. 
中国驻匈牙利前任大使朱祝寿先生观众带来了
他编写的匈牙利旅游指南书“ 
匈牙利葡萄酒代理商宁波久千恒贸
易公司给观众带来了原装进口葡萄酒。
A k . r ü l b e l ü l m i n t e g y 
2 5 0 f . s h a l l g a t ó s á g n a k 
lehet.sége nyílt belehallgatni 
n é h á n y m a g y a r z e n é b e , 
megízlelni a magyar borok 
z a m a t á t , m e g c s o d á l n i a 
t ájakat és meghallgatni a 
sanghaji f.konzul el.adását ill. 
kérdésekre adott válaszait. 
大约250人有机会倾听到匈牙利的音乐， 品尝匈牙利
的葡萄酒， 欣赏匈牙利的风景图片，听到匈牙利驻上
海总领事用匈语向大家介绍， 并回答观众们向他们提
出的各种有关匈牙利的情况。
A magyar borok kereskedelmével 
foglalkozó Ningbo Jiuqianheng Kft. 
eredeti magyar borokkal lepte meg a 
látogatókat.

62 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 63 
棋艺活动
跆拳道表演
书法学习
歌舞表演
ART GALLERY 艺术长廊 
Colorful Children's Day 
丰富多彩的儿童节
主持人：本周末恰逢“六一国际儿童节”，本市多家公共文化场
所都为少年儿童准备了丰富的体验活动，给少年儿童营造一个快乐
的节日氛围。 
"您好，我是龅牙兔的徐伟苑，请您买一份报纸献一份爱心吧， 
一元钱一份……谢谢！" 
稚嫩的童音、声声叫卖，一大早在津湾广场几十名身着统一服装
的小朋友胸前挎着背包，向过路的行人卖起了报纸。旁边一条宽幅
的画卷上孩子们在认真的作画，远处的舞台上还有不少小朋友进行
着才艺表演，唱歌、架子鼓、武术样样精彩。活动负责人李晓军介绍
说：
"今年的主题是亲子，包括孩子的精神健康的才艺秀为主题，锻
炼他们与人沟通、交往的能力，融入社会的能力，卖报纸的善款要捐
给自闭症的孩子们，也帮助孩子从小培养爱心。现场设置了很多展
位、很多小游戏，孩子的手工，准备了很多小礼物。孩子到这个现场
来可以吃喝玩乐，过一个有意思的六一。" 
"压混……我们是川府里小学的，小朋友画什么呢？我画的犀
牛，豹子，喜欢画画吗？喜欢！" 
在这个专属小朋友的节日里，天津美术馆精心策划组织了一百
名外来务工人员子女来参观非洲画展，观看短片、欣赏作品、互动交
流、绘画体验等一系列活动让孩子们玩得不亦乐乎，美术馆副馆长
卢永秀介绍说： 
"我们也不断拓展公共教育的领域，利用我们这么优势的平台， 
为观众提供美术讲坛，她们在实际的美术活动中也受到了启发，我
们也是通过各种方式拓展公共领域的功能，更好的为市民服务。" 
市青少年活动中心也为小朋友准备了丰盛的儿童节“大餐”。
“劈波斩浪”海模比赛、“动物狂欢节”美术活动、“风驰电掣”车
模比赛、“上阵父子兵”中国象棋大比拼等近２０项活动，其中全国首
创的“跳动音符，我的梦”儿童音乐街更是受到孩子们的热捧，市青
少年活动中心主任张大庆说： 
"音乐是所有孩子都喜欢的，让孩子在音乐当中去学习音乐、去
玩音乐，特别把音乐变成游戏形式，所以选择了动物游戏，人偶游
戏、包括键盘游戏、打击乐等等，孩子和做音乐的人互动，让他了解
真正的音乐是什么，让小孩对音乐有更广泛的理解同时能有自己的
音乐生活，让音乐来带动艺术美和行为美，用音乐来引领他。今后我
们的活动是尽量的把所有的文化符号变成游戏让孩子在游乐中体验
文化、体验艺术、体验道德。"

64 THE WORLD AND CHINA 
ART GALLERY 艺术长廊 
A mAsTEr of WAsH PAINTINgs 
冀有泉艺术简历 
著名军旅画家、国家一级美术师。 
自幼深受母亲濡染熏陶，酷爱艺术。师 
从著名 国画家、鲁迅美术学院陈忠义教授， 
毕业于中央美 院，现为清华大学访问学者。 
中国少数民族文化艺术工作委员会常 
务副主 任兼秘书长、中国民族名家书画院院 
长、中国美术 家协会会员、中国工笔学会会 
员、中国舞美协会会 员、中国民俗摄影家协 
会会员、中国民族博物馆研 究员。 
主攻国画山水创作，着力反映祖国河山 
的壮丽 秀美，尤以冰雪和胡杨画作品著称。 
其作品特点： 
大气中充满灵秀，雄浑中流溢清朗，冷 
傲中深蕴绵 柔，形成独特的艺术风格。 
独创水墨胡杨绘画技法，业内称之为 
冀氏画 法 。2 011年1 0月，他在新疆国际 
胡杨森林公园举 办了 大漠胡杨民族之魂 
首届水墨胡杨画专题 展。其笔下的胡杨，苍 
劲、古朴、雄奇、老辣，受到名 家和各界人 
士的高度评价，被誉为当代 水墨胡杨 第一 
人 、 中国水墨胡杨王 。 
字画疏处可以走马，密处不使透风 的 
法则，密处，枝干稠密，就 连大漠之风也难 
以穿透 ;疏处，则是号称沙漠之舟的骆驼 的 
天地，任其纵横往来 ;而在动静结合上，冀有 
泉画得得 心应手 :有时，静的是胡杨，动的是 
骆驼、山羊以及驼铃； 有时，静的是月亮， 
动的是天空中的云朵或三五飞禽。就 在这 
动与静的相辅相成中，他还将藏景露景的构 
图法运 用得十分巧妙。既不全藏，也不全露， 
让读者感到画外有 画，不致一览无余。 
在墨法上，他摆脱了干墨皴擦的传统习 
气，不是单纯的由淡至浓，层层积累，而是 
跳出前人的窠臼，强调浓 墨重墨的直接表 
现。他常常在毛笔上直接将墨汁的浓 淡调 
节好，将墨色的层次感一笔画出。更值得指 
出的是，他十分强调计白当黑，强调黑 白相 
千古绝唱，水墨胡杨 
－－访著名军旅画家、国家一级美术师冀有泉 
间，黑白对比，相互补充。用白来表现光，表
现影， 表现生机。因此，他的每幅作品上，
都有一到几个光点，用以激活画面，展示质
感。这样白，这样的光点，是画的核心、画的
灵魂。是言外之言，物外之趣，意味无穷。
在用笔上，为表现胡杨自身的韵律和
树干的沧桑感，冀有泉除了以中锋用笔，用
手的腕力，让笔在纸上自然滚动外，还时常
时而中锋、时而侧锋交替，任笔自然滚动，将
胡杨树干上的树洞、疤痕等岁月的痕迹赋予
了动感、力度与生机。其下笔时，绝不唯唯诺
诺，犹犹豫豫，而是势如下山猛虎，大开大
合，笔墨淋漓；气若万马奔腾，连绵不绝，畅
酣磅礴。
有人评论过冀有泉的笔法他先以遒劲
的线条勾勒胡杨的枝干骨架，然后区别对
文：赵立军
象，在留白处运用各种皴法加以不同的皴擦
渲染，将老与新、枯与荣、死与生各种状态
的胡杨肌理、质感、天然野趣刻画得栩栩如
生。飞白本是书法中的一种特殊笔法取其
发丝的笔迹谓之白，其势若飞举者谓之飞。
后被国画家采用，它的笔画特点是有的部分
呈枯丝平行转折处笔画突出。正是由于大
量使用这种自悟出来的新型笔法，才使得冀
有泉在创作胡杨树采用飞白笔法用水墨皴擦
出来时有了颇似木版画般的木纹肌理的效
果，使得他笔下的胡杨墨色苍劲浓淡相宜层
次清晰形神兼备气韵盛，将胡杨不屈的生
命力表现得淋漓尽致。
一般而言，一个有成就的画家必定有其
让人耳熟能详的代表性绘画题材，就如郑板
桥之竹、徐悲鸿之马、齐白石之虾、李可染
之牛。我相信，冀有泉的水墨胡杨 亦可在不
远的将来成为人们耳熟能详的画作。而他对
传统水墨的坚守与探索，也必将使他在探索
中国传统绘画艺术的道路上走得更远，取得
更大的成就。
我一直认为，在全社会普遍以西方审美
标准为尺度的今天，中国画还能以独立之面
目发展延续并且长盛不衰，全在于水墨的使
用，在于中国人对黑白这两种终极色彩的偏
爱。因此，我对那些对水墨情有独钟的画家
们充满敬意。
所以，我非常愿意站在这样的角度，来
审视画家冀有泉，来欣赏、阅读他笔下的水
墨胡杨。
美术史告诉我们，以中国画花鸟之繁，
山水之盛，人物之茂，欲在名家、大家多如
恒河之沙中占有一席之地，必定有其独特的
面貌和独特的精神。因此，当我有幸走进冀
有泉国画艺术馆，有幸欣赏到他的水墨胡杨
的作品时，得到的感受远非震撼二字所能
形容，心灵上受到的冲击久久难以平静。
将生长在塔克拉玛干荒漠沙海中生
而不死一千年，死而不倒一千年，倒而不朽
一千年的胡杨作为绘画题材，冀有泉堪称
首创。而用中国最传统的水墨来表现胡杨，
更是冀有泉独具匠心的选择。其笔下的胡
杨，古朴沧桑，雄浑苍劲线条凌厉气势磅礴。
他所开创的用水墨中的飞白表现胡杨的枝
干，在留白与飞白之间，强调光影，注重用水
用墨，因势运墨的技法，被称之为冀氏胡
间，黑白对比，相互补充。用白来表现光，表
现影， 表现生机。因此，他的每幅作品上，
都有一到几个光点，用以激活画面，展示质
感。这样白，这样的光点，是画的核心、画的
灵魂。是言外之言，物外之趣，意味无穷。
在用笔上，为表现胡杨自身的韵律和
树干的沧桑感，冀有泉除了以中锋用笔，用
手的腕力，让笔在纸上自然滚动外，还时常
时而中锋、时而侧锋交替，任笔自然滚动，将
胡杨树干上的树洞、疤痕等岁月的痕迹赋予
了动感、力度与生机。其下笔时，绝不唯唯诺
诺，犹犹豫豫，而是势如下山猛虎，大开大
合，笔墨淋漓；气若万马奔腾，连绵不绝，畅
酣磅礴。
有人评论过冀有泉的笔法他先以遒劲
的线条勾勒胡杨的枝干骨架，然后区别对
文：赵立军
象，在留白处运用各种皴法加以不同的皴擦
渲染，将老与新、枯与荣、死与生各种状态
的胡杨肌理、质感、天然野趣刻画得栩栩如
生。飞白本是书法中的一种特殊笔法取其
发丝的笔迹谓之白，其势若飞举者谓之飞。
后被国画家采用，它的笔画特点是有的部分
呈枯丝平行转折处笔画突出。正是由于大
量使用这种自悟出来的新型笔法，才使得冀
有泉在创作胡杨树采用飞白笔法用水墨皴擦
出来时有了颇似木版画般的木纹肌理的效
果，使得他笔下的胡杨墨色苍劲浓淡相宜层
次清晰形神兼备气韵盛，将胡杨不屈的生
命力表现得淋漓尽致。
一般而言，一个有成就的画家必定有其
让人耳熟能详的代表性绘画题材，就如郑板
桥之竹、徐悲鸿之马、齐白石之虾、李可染
之牛。我相信，冀有泉的水墨胡杨 亦可在不
远的将来成为人们耳熟能详的画作。而他对
传统水墨的坚守与探索，也必将使他在探索
中国传统绘画艺术的道路上走得更远，取得
更大的成就。
我一直认为，在全社会普遍以西方审美
标准为尺度的今天，中国画还能以独立之面
目发展延续并且长盛不衰，全在于水墨的使
用，在于中国人对黑白这两种终极色彩的偏
爱。因此，我对那些对水墨情有独钟的画家
们充满敬意。
所以，我非常愿意站在这样的角度，来
审视画家冀有泉，来欣赏、阅读他笔下的水
墨胡杨。
美术史告诉我们，以中国画花鸟之繁，
山水之盛，人物之茂，欲在名家、大家多如
恒河之沙中占有一席之地，必定有其独特的
面貌和独特的精神。因此，当我有幸走进冀
有泉国画艺术馆，有幸欣赏到他的水墨胡杨
的作品时，得到的感受远非震撼二字所能
形容，心灵上受到的冲击久久难以平静。
将生长在塔克拉玛干荒漠沙海中生
而不死一千年，死而不倒一千年，倒而不朽
一千年的胡杨作为绘画题材，冀有泉堪称
首创。而用中国最传统的水墨来表现胡杨，
更是冀有泉独具匠心的选择。其笔下的胡
杨，古朴沧桑，雄浑苍劲线条凌厉气势磅礴。
他所开创的用水墨中的飞白表现胡杨的枝
干，在留白与飞白之间，强调光影，注重用水
用墨，因势运墨的技法，被称之为冀氏胡
THE WORLD AND CHINA 65


艺术长廊 

ART GALLERY


杨技法”，他也因此被誉为“水墨胡杨第一
人”。

将胡杨人画，源自冀有泉1998年的一次
新疆之旅。行进在塔克拉玛干的公路上，路
旁棵棵形状独特的老树引起冀有泉的注意。
在好奇心的驱使下，他走进了这片陌生的树
林。数千年的历史尘埃在他的脚下腾起，数
千年的斑驳枝丫在他的肩头拂过，作为军人
的冀有泉被深深地震撼了“那些树奇形怪
状，有的像老人，有的像小孩；越往里走，就
越像是走进了一个古战场。特别是夜幕降临
月光之下更是一片光怪陆离的奇妙景致。 ”
置身于胡杨林中，冀有泉的心弦被拨动了。
军人情怀和画家敏感在涌动，在升腾。一个
全新的绘画品种，就在画家的心灵与周围

66 THE WORLD AND CHINA 

的景致奇妙的契合中诞生了。他后来得知，
这种树叫胡杨。维族人称它是“世界上最美
丽的树”；汉族人说它扎根大漠，是“英雄
树”；蒙古族人则认为它是“圣树”。

冀有泉的水墨胡杨，大气磅礴、意象豪
放、雄浑古朴、浪漫瑰丽，充满了生命的感叹
与岁月的体悟；苍凉中透露着生命的意蕴，
萧肃中带有悲壮的色彩；与岁月一样长青，
与长城一样万古，默默地注视着人世间的风
云变幻，朝代更迭，刀光剑影，血雨腥风。冀
有泉笔下的水墨胡杨让人肃然起敬，顶礼膜
拜，因为，在胡杨面前，人类如同过客，时间
才是见证。这让我想起了唐代的边塞诗，想
起了中国人延绵数千年的边塞情结。作为唐
诗中思想性最深刻、想象力最丰富、艺术性

最强的一部分，唐代的边塞诗或描写奇异的
塞外风光，或反映戍边的艰辛以及表达戍边
将士的思乡之情。虽然冀有泉的水墨胡杨在
其主要意象上不及唐代的边塞诗丰富，但在
思想性、想象力与艺术性等方面，二者是相
通的。其将边塞诗的意象，具象以水墨胡杨
表现的画法，在当代画坛乃至艺术界当独
执牛耳。

在构图上，冀有泉的水墨胡杨匠心独
运，讲究远近分布：近景画面多为实写，傲然
挺立的胡杨树枝干遒劲，或横卧中心，或气
冲霄汉，身姿倔强挺拔;远景画面多为虚写，
新生胡杨枝繁叶茂、生机盎然。虚衬实，实
带虚;景物的高低错落、水墨胡杨表现的画
法，在当代画坛乃至艺术界当独执牛耳。

ВыстаВка работ русского 
художника

Photo and Text: Ren Yunfei 

俄罗斯画家作品展 


图文：任云飞 


画家妮娜 ・西拉叶娃 художник нина силаева

当代俄罗斯画家妮娜 ・西拉叶娃作品展于2013
年7月19日在北京俄罗斯文化中心开幕。 

Выставка работ современного художника 
нины силаевой открылась в российском 
культурном центре в Пекине 19-го июля 2013 
года.

画家是位忠实的浪漫主义者和诗人，在她的作
品里最大程度的展现着对审美价值的理解。 

художник является верным романтиком 
и поэтом, в его работах максимально 
отражается понимание


参展小朋友 дети на выставке

THE WORLD AND CHINA 67


艺术长廊 

ART GALLERY 

“I want to share 
my vIolIn collectIon
wIth my frIends.”


“以琴会友 
”文：Nagy 图：任云飞 

世界著名，中国第一小提琴演奏家盛中国先生试拉了10把古琴同时，盛中国先生还孜孜不倦地为少年提琴学者进行义务指导

This is what Xu Zhaomin, the most renowned violin collector in China, feels. 
A violin exhibition was held at a business club at the end of June. Some violins were made in Hungary, others in France or Italy. 
All of these violins were collected by Mr. Xu Zhaomin during his trips in Europe in the past two decades. 
Guests would not only have the opportunities to appreciate the beauty of violins, but would also hear famous violinists to play 
them. All performances were free of charge. 


这是中国第一小提琴收藏家徐兆民的肺腑
感言。

6月底的一个周末，在一家企业商务会所里
汇集的各种各样的小提琴，有匈牙利的，法国
的，意大利的等。这些都是徐兆民先生20多年
遍足欧洲的辛勤积累。

应邀嘉宾不仅可以大饱眼福，还有机会听到
名家的免费演奏。 


出席活动的盛装女士们

“I’m glad to invite Mr. Xu and our guests 
to be here, and help them appreciate the art of 
violin. This is a good opportunity for us to make 
new friends and enrich our life”, said Liu Jinfa, the 
general manager of Citi Hongli Business Club.


中信泓力商务会所的总经理刘金法介绍说： 
“我十分高兴能为徐先生以及各位来宾提供这样的
场所义务服务，能让大家到此领略提琴艺术，同时也
交交新朋友， 丰富大家的生活”。


嘉宾与盛中国夫人，日本钢琴艺术家濑田裕子交谈。 爱不释手地抢握匈牙利的国宝爱情之琴


Mr. Sheng Zhongguo, the most renowned violinist in China, 
attended the event and played 10 antique violins. 

Mr. Sheng also gave instructions to young violin players free of 
charge. 


Ladies wearing splendid attires attended the event. 


Conversation with Hiroko Seta, a pianist from Japan and wife of 
Mr. Sheng Zhongguo 

Guests appreciate the beauty of Violin of Love , a national 
treasure of Hungary. 

68 THE WORLD AND CHINA 


70 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 71 
ART GALLERY 艺术长廊 
Lilly was born in 1969 in Belgrade, where she graduated 
from the School of Mechanical Engineering in 1995. Working 
independently, she has generated a particular artistic expression 
of various painting techniques, that was taking shape in the late 
nineties, so as to entirely dedicate herself to painting on silk, 
from the beginning of the following decade. She has developed 
a specific and original skill of painting on silk base by using 
applications of other materials, preferably of the Swarovski 
crystals and glass beads. 
丽莉1969年出生在贝尔格莱德，1995年毕业于机械工程学
院，是一名独立艺术家，她擅长运用各种绘画技法，具有独特的艺
术表现形式。从上世纪90年代末起，她投身丝绸画创作，她将各类
材质运用到作品当中，并融合富有原创性的绘画技法。她尤其喜爱
在作品中使用施华洛世奇水晶与玻璃珠。
Lilly is a member of the Serbian Academic Society Byzantine 
(2006), the French Society Artistes Independants (2010) and 
the French Association Mecenavie (2011). She is the winner of 
several awards and honors: “Byzantine Reflections” (2008, 2011), 
“Letters of Apprenticeship”, of the praise for her contribution 
to “Byzantine” society affirmation, of the honor “Appreciation” 
(2009), as well as of the Golden Charter of the Association of 
Serbian Artists (2011). 
莉吉嘉娜・伯克尔・丽莉
LJILJANA BURCUL LILLY 
丽莉是塞尔维亚Byzantine协会（2006年）、法国独立艺术家
协会（2010年）、法国Mecemavoe协会（2011年）会员。她曾多
次获奖：2008年与2011年，她的作品“Byzantine Reflections”与
“ Letters of Apprenticeship”获得Byzantine协会荣誉奖，2011 
年荣获“塞尔维亚艺术家协会”金奖。
Continually inspired by the secrets of human existence, 
her figural and abstract painting of intensive coloring is oriented 
towards vitality, thus representing the artistic expression of 
driving energy in the basis of reality. 
“人类存在的秘密”是她绘画灵感的主要来源。她的绘画作品， 
不论风格是写实还是抽象，都包含浓重的色彩、栩栩如生，这种艺
术表现手法给现实注入活力。
In paintings from 2011 and 2012, Lilly expanded the 
boundaries of her expression, transitioning more and more into 
abstraction, dedicating herself to the painting without a limiting 
factor of the form, although her compositions often arouse 
莉吉嘉娜・伯克尔・丽莉 LJILJANA BURCUL LILLY 
associations with certain forms. The world of known slowly 
fades away on these canvases, transmitting the rhythm of the 
cosmic energy no longer by the language of symbols, but as the 
embodied feeling by colors. This is how, the cycle Cosmic Dance 
appears, as the pictorial representation of the invisible in the 
unique harmonies of colors, by which Lilly continues her search 
for the center of existence, personal and human in general. 
在2011年与2012年的作品中，她拓展了艺术表现的范围，作品
越来越抽象，不再拘泥于表现手法，尽管她的作品常常让人联想到
某种特定的表现形式。“已知的世界”已不再是绘画的主题，她不再
通过符号语言表现宇宙的能量和节奏，而是通过色彩表现人的内心
感受，这正是我们从“宇宙之舞”这一作品中看到的。这部作品的色
彩具有巧妙的平衡，画家试图通过对无形事物的展现，寻找人类存
在的核心意义。
On the journey from figuration to abstraction, Ljiljana 
Burcul Lilly has generated her own myth about creating of the 
sorceress. She experiences that concept as the constant feat 
of “self-realization through creation”. Indulging in the magic 
of the creative act, she follows the idea of love as the basic 
instigator. For her, the painting is modus vivendi, life style and 
attitude. In Lilly’s painting concept, love, freedom and creation 
continually pervade. Thus her paintings, turned to the universal 
values, radiate with life energy and she reveals the secrets of the 
spiritual world, in accordance with the eternal search of man for 
the purpose. Her choice is optimism, vitality, joy of life, desire to 
live the most beautiful fairytale through the magic of art and the 
quest to share it with others. 
在从写实走向抽象的过程中，莉吉嘉娜・伯克尔・丽莉形成了独
特的创作风格，她秉承“通过创作自我实现”的理念，沉浸在艺术
创作的乐趣之中。“爱”是激发她创作灵感的源泉。她认为，绘画是
一种生活方式，代表着一种态度。爱、自由与创造是她绘画作品的
主题。她的作品代表一种普遍的价值观，散发出旺盛的生命活力， 
同时，她也揭示了人类精神世界的秘密，这正是人们长期以来一直
在探寻的话题。她通过魔幻的艺术表现方式，展现出人类的积极乐
观、生命的乐趣，描绘出一片美丽的童话世界。

阿富汗使节镜头的瞬间 

MOMENTS THOUGH THE LENSES OF DIPLOMATS OF EMBASSY OF AFGHANISTAN 


THE WORLD AND CHINA 73
PHOTO BY: 
BakTasH kargar
阿富汗驻华大使馆 
72 THE WORLD AND CHINA 


阿塞拜疆使节镜头的瞬间 

MOMENTS THOUGH THE LENSES OF DIPLOMATS OF EMBASSY OF AzERBAIjAN 

P H O T O B Y :
哈萨诺夫.巴埃尔慕镜头下的瞬间
阿塞拜疆驻华大使馆 
B. HasanOv, COunsellOr 
74 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 75


76 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 77 
BUSINESS PLATFORM 商务平台 
2013年6月25-26日，第二届中国国际进口产品洽谈会北京召开
Zhao Xiaodi, Minister of Economic 
Information Unit, China Council for 
the Promotion of International Trade 
(CCPIT), hosts the opening ceremony on 
behalf of CCPIT, the sponsor of the fair. 
主办方中国国际贸易促进委员会经济信息
部赵晓迪部长主持开幕式
Wang Jinzhen, Vice-Chairman of China 
Council for the Promotion of International 
Trade, makes a speech at the opening 
ceremony. 
中国贸促协会副会长王锦珍致辞
300 Chinese enterprises carried out one-to-one circular talks with nearly 100 
enterprises from 20 countries, including Canada, the United States, Italy, Germany, 
Singapore and Iran. The main fields of discussions included raw materials and 
equipments, such as low-carbon products and protective technologies, as well as 
consumer goods, including agricultural products, food and cosmetics. 
来自国内的300多家中国企业，与来自加拿大、美国、意大利、德国、新加坡、伊朗等20个
国家的近100家企业开展了一对一循环对接。对接产品主要集中在低碳产品、保护技术等
原材料和设备领域，以及农产品、食品、化妆品等消费领域。
Mr. Kristoph, from Nevada Governor's 
Of fice of Economic Development is 
giving an interview to a Chinese reporter. 
美国内华达州国际贸易部长国际贸易部部
长克里斯拖福接受中国记者采访。
The 2nd China International Imported Goods Fair raised its curtains on June 25, 2013. 
进口产品洽谈会
Imp orted Goods Fair 
图文：朝亮
Photo and Text: Charles 
5月底 匈牙利大克勒什市代表团出席了一年一度举办的苏州旅
游节活动期间， 期间与苏州吴中签署友好城市备忘。 这是自去年
以来本杂志社牵线搭桥促成的第二个匈中友好城市。
吴中区人民政府金洁区长、吴中区人民政府许振华常务副区长、吴
中区人民政府办公室顾益坚主任，吴中区外事和侨务办公室周凤祥
主任，苏州市外事办公室沈悦副处长，吴中区外事和侨务办公室梅
建琴副主任、徐菊秋副主任。
Május végén Nagyk.r.s delegációja ellátogatott az 
évente egyszer megrendezésre kerül. Suzhou Turisztikai 
Vásárra, amelynek során Suzhou Város Wuzhong Kerületével 
testvérvárosi kapcsolat létesítésér.l szóló szándéknyilatkozatot 
írtak alá. Ez tavaly óta a második olyan testvérvárosi kapcsolat, 
amely magazinunk k.zvetítésével j.tt létre. 
Wuzhong Kerület Helyi .nkormányzatának polgármestere, 
Jin Jie, a Kerület állandó Bizottságának vezet.je, helyettes 
polgármester, Xu Zhenhua, a Kerületi Iroda vezet.je, Gu Yijian, 
a Kerület Külügyi Hivatalának vezet.je, Zhou Fengxiang, 
Suzhou Város Külügyi Hivatalának helyettes vezet.je, Shen 
Yue, a Kerület Külügyi Hivatalának helyettes vezet.i, Mei 
Jianqin és Xu Juqiu. 
中匈又一个友好城市对接
ú jabb mag y ar - k í n ai 
testv érv árosi kapcs olat

78 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 79 
BUSINESS PLATFORM 商务平台 
Former Prime Minister of Hungar y, Mr. Medg yess y atte nded the ZJITS 
匈牙利前总理彼得.麦杰希先生出席“浙洽会” 
6月7日至9日，应“浙洽会”组委会和宁波市人民政府驻北京办
事处邀请，匈牙利前总理彼得.麦杰希先生一行专程赴宁波出席
第十五届中国浙江投资贸易洽谈会、第十二届中国国际日用品消费
品博览会（2013中国浙江进口商品展览会）和第六届中国开放论
坛。 
李强在会见时首先对前总理对中匈两国友好往来，交流方面的
贡献给予了高度赞赏。同时还指出，当前浙江与匈牙利的交流合作
图文：特约记者：魏云飞
会见时在座的还有匈牙利驻上海领馆商务参赞盖尔盖伊.米海伊先生， 匈牙利杂志《世界中国》社社长纳吉.麟女士等
甬期间，麦杰希一行参观考察东钱湖、奉化溪口雪窦寺等地。
面临许多新机遇，希望双方今后进一步加强在经济、文化等领域的
合作。麦杰希说，匈牙利政府无论哪个党派执政，都非常重视与中
国的交流与合作。他也将继续积极推进中匈友好，特别是与浙江、
宁波在经济、科技与文化等方面的交流合作。宁波市委副书记、代
市长卢子跃参加会见。省政府秘书长李卫宁、省外办主任金永辉， 
以及宁波市政府秘书长王建社、宁波驻京办主任任森祺等会见时
在座。 
彼得 . 麦杰希先生出席“浙洽会”，向匈牙利展
商询问匈牙利葡萄酒在中国的销售情况。
浙罨嵴倏期间， 新开的宁波进口产品展览中心也为进口商们提
供了展示场所。 到7月为止已有28多个国家的产品进入展览中心。 
中国驻匈牙利大使馆前任大使朱祝寿一行应邀参观在展览中心。这
是匈牙利在宁波开设的首家匈牙利葡萄酒店。
天一阁博物馆馆长向匈牙利前总理迈杰希先生赠送邮票
本刊社在6月6日在人民大会设宴招待匈牙利前总理麦杰希先生 
麦杰希前总理在送给延阔大师 的欧盟旗子上签名

80 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 81 
BUSINESS PLATFORM 商务平台 
匈牙利参与建设中国内蒙古马术中心 
T.bb mint 3 éves el.készít. munka után Liu Ya Song és Stojcsics József álma kezd megvalósulni. 
3 évvel ezel.tt egy olyan komplex lovas programot álmodtak meg, amiben lovas show, lovas oktatás, mindenféle lovas sport és 
egy nagy lovas kulturális szórakoztató k.zpont létrehozása szerepelt. Ezen nagyszabású projekt egyik eleme a lovas k.zpont, aminek 
a kivitelezésével Stojcsics József egy székesfehérvári faipari tervez. és kivitelez. céget bízott meg. 
经过三年多的筹备工作，刘亚松和什托伊奇奇・约瑟夫的梦想很快就要实现。 
三年前，他们梦想了一个包括提供马术表演、骑马马术训练、各种骑马运动的以及有着大型马术文娱中心的综合项目。什托伊奇奇・约
瑟夫委托一家匈牙利塞克什白堡的木材结构设计和施工企业建设这个大型项目的马术中心部分。
Lovas K.zpont épül Kínában magyar részvétellel 
Az aláírási ceremónia jelent.ségét és a kínai-magyar gazdasági, épít.ipari együttm.k.dés fontosságát jelezte, hogy jelenlétével 
megtisztelte az aláírást Magyarország Nagyk.vete Kusai Sándor is. 
匈牙利驻华大使库绍伊・山多尔出席签约仪式表明了签约仪式的重大意义以及中匈经济和建筑业合作的重要性。
A rendezvényen kínai részr.l t.bbek k.z.tt részt vett a Kínai Kereskedelmi Minisztérium Befektetést El.mozdító Hivatala Európai 
Képviseletvezet.je Zhang Kun úr és a Kínai-Európai Gazdasági Kamara Befektetést .szt.nz. Sz.vetségének végrehajtó titkára, 
Huang Yumin asszony. 
中方出席活动有中国商务部投资促进事务局欧洲代表处首席代表张坤先生,中欧商会投资促进联盟执行秘书长黄玉民女士等. 
文：约瑟夫
Foto:T・P Wang Jia 
Sz.veg:Jozsef 
2013. július 4-én a lovas k.zpont létesítésér.l szóló keretszerz.dést írta alá a három fél. 
2013年7月4日，三方签署了马术中心的框架协议。
A megrendel., Liu Ya Song és az egész projekt szervez.je, Stojcsics József 
采购人为刘亚松、承包商为海因里希・斯图姆而整个项目的组织者是什托伊奇奇・约瑟夫（项目协调人）。

商务平台 

BUSINESS PLATFORM

近年来中国政府十分关注中国食品安全， 于 2004将每年的七月份定位食品安全月。
7月 17日由国家青少年食品质量监督检验中心发起， 与东莞人民政府联合承举办“国际少年儿童食品互信联盟建设研讨会 ”活动。 
The Government of China shows great concern for food safety in recent years. In 2004, the government determined July as the 
“Food Safety Month” of China. 
The “International Symposium for Constructing a Mutual-Trust Union for Children’s Food” raised curtain on July 17, 2013. This 
symposium was sponsored by Teenagers’ Food quality Supervision and Inspection Center of China and cosponsored by the People’s 
Government of Dongguan, Guangdong Province. 

84 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 85 
CHINESE AND FOREIGN FOOD 中外美食 
追品裕泰香 
--“裕泰东方”体验店茶荟馆亮相上海世博源
Wuyutai’s New Store Opens in 
Shanghai Expo Park 
“传承百年好茶经典，创造世纪品茶潮流”，一幅对联把笔者
的目光引向了上海。
久违了，世博园。一别3年，上海世博会的壮观依然在脑海里盘
旋，后世博的“世博源”又给世人何等精彩呢？ 
世博轴上喜讯张扬，时尚的鼓乐与传统的狮舞交相辉映，一
档热烈却不铺张的庆典仪式在世博源“品味区”隆重举行，来自
北京和上海的各界嘉宾见证着喜庆的时刻，中华百年老字号吴裕
泰亮相上海世博源，“裕泰东方”体验店茶荟馆闪亮登场，厚积
薄发再续世博缘！ 
“园”、“源”、“缘”，三个音同字不同的中国文字，向茶生活
的体验者们叙说了一个北京茶品牌历时3年融入“东方海派”茶
文化的故事： 
“园”自2010年4月的上海世博园。吴裕泰作为北京唯一获
得上海世博会特许生产商和零售商的老字号茶叶企业来到了上
海，将传承百年的茉莉花茶窨制技艺和精选全国各地的名优好
茶展示在世人面前。期间，吴裕泰独家运营的“中国茶坊”为世
博园奉献了184天的茶香盛宴，所开发的十余款特许产品更博得
了满堂采。这是继北京奥运会之后，吴裕泰又一次通过上海世博
会让来自世界的7000多万参观者认知自己，进一步奠定了中华
老字号茶业走出北京，走出国门，走向世界的基础。 
“源”自后世博的上海世博源。世博会为来自北京的茶品牌带
来了前所未有的市场机遇。吴裕泰留沪团队通过市场调查，看到
老上海人是有喝花茶的讲究的，其“裕泰香”等世博产品有着很
多的回头客。2011年，吴裕泰茶业（上海）有限公司正式成立， 
通过商场、超市等销售渠道的建设，迅速提升老字号吴裕泰茶
品牌在华东地区的认知度，同时不断优化产品结构，探索“东方
海派”的商业模式，寻找落地开花的机会。与此同时，后世博第
一批改造项目---世博源购物中心在世博轴落成，这一充分保留
世博园特色建筑风貌，集餐饮、娱乐、休闲、文化于一体的主题
商业区进入了吴裕泰的视线，公司迅速决定将首家茶体验店--- 
“裕泰东方”茶荟馆落户世博源。 
“缘”自北京吴裕泰与上海浦东新区的世博缘。从2010年4月
计时，3年时光弹指一挥间，上海世博会所演绎的集世界智慧的
“城市发展百科全书”火热地翻开了续篇，上海浦东新区---这
永不落幕的后世博之旅，吸引着八方有识之士的目光。2013年
4月28日，“裕泰东方”体验店茶荟馆亮相世博源，且店址距当
年吴裕泰在世博园运营的“中国茶坊”仅数百米之远。用北京吴
裕泰茶业公司总经理孙丹威的一句话说：“因世博吴裕泰来到
上海，因后世博吴裕泰开启新的航程，不能不说这是一种缘分
呀！” 
庆典现场，年轻的时尚鼓手闪烁着青花瓷的光彩，古老的传统舞
狮跳跃着新时代的音符，传统和时尚就是这样相互包融着。在礼花的
升腾中，笔者急切想知道的是：“裕泰东方”体验店茶荟馆是以什么样
的运营方式让传承126年的北方老字号融入“东方海派”的呢？“依托
上海浦东新区迅速发展的市场架构，打造全新的茶业运营模式和茶
生活体验；荟萃世界一流好茶，为高品质时尚人群带来别样的茶香感
受，这是吴裕泰‘裕泰东方’体验店茶荟馆的定位，也是中华老字号再
塑时尚品牌的全新体验。”吴裕泰总经理孙丹威向记者诠释。 
走进吴裕泰“制之惟恐不精，采之惟恐不尽”制茶理念浸润的“裕
泰东方”茶荟馆，300平方米寸土寸金之中，人工手绘的茉莉花朵飘
飘然由空而降，仿佛一位隐身的仙女在赐福。铜板上刻画的吴裕泰
LOGO托映着高低不同价位的吴裕泰茶品将消费者引入这茶生活的
体验空间。茶座、茶吧、茶包间、茶品展示台……无处不散发着“新” 
的气息。 
“裕泰东方”项目负责人吴裕泰副总经理魏|介绍说：“裕泰东方
设计理念可以总结为三个创新，第一是茶饮体验的创新，在这里大
家可以品尝到世界不同的茶饮，包括中国极品名茶、国际三大高香红
茶、日本传统抹茶和时尚的水果茶、鸡尾茶，可谓谈笑一室中，尽品世
界风；第二是茶食品的创新，茶冰激凌、佐茶甜点应有尽有，且充分顾
及到日益年轻化的消费时尚；第三是我们通过茶道、茶园小景、创意
包装等，加上室内无处不在的手绘茉莉花墙、精美装饰，让体验店内
步步有雅景，处处闻茶香。茶荟馆突出‘荟’字，意将中国茶文化的意
趣与茶生活的风尚和世界的高端茶品文化浓缩荟萃，营造极具品位的
休闲氛围。” 
Text and Photo:Jiang Zhijun 图文：蒋志均 
笔者信步游览，心中却思忖：一个源自
北方，京味十足的老字号茶庄如何能融入
一线国际化大都市---上海的“东方海派” 
文化呢？听一位教授曾说，若在上海作生
意，首先要把握它“不中不西”、“不伦不
类”，处处泛着“洋范儿”的特点；但“东方
海派”文化包融性很强，这里的东方不是
小东方，不是泛指某个区，而是大东方的概
念。审视眼前的一切，入潮的吴裕泰不正是
以审时度势、改革创新、与时俱进的魄力再
塑自己，让古老茶文化走向广阔，让传统原
叶茶更新发展，让百年老字号活力延绵吗？ 
吴裕泰人在打拼，在和亮相于上海滩的“裕
泰东方”体验店一道体验，尽管这种打拼
和体验来得是如此辛苦…… 
用孙丹威总经理的话说：“上海与北京
是中国的两大核心城市，但城市氛围和消
费习惯却存在明显差异。海派文化的包容
和多样性给我们带来了信心与机遇，也让
我们面临更多的挑战，因此我们必须重新
审视和发展自己，为当地消费者量身打造
更适合他们消费习惯和生活品质的茶生活
休闲场所。” 
返京途中听说，继“裕泰东方”体验店
茶荟馆亮相上海世博源后，位于北京前门
大街的吴裕泰另一所茶生活体验店也将运
营，中国两大核心城市，风格各异的吴裕泰
两大主题茶荟馆b相呼应，演绎着具有东
方风情的国茶时尚……。
Wuyutai is a century-old tea shop 
brand which owns some 300 chain 
stores across the country. The past 
15 years witnessed this time-honored 
brand’s fastest growth when it launched 
and expanded franchised operation and 
made intensive and extensive efforts to 
develop new varieties of tea products. 
Wuyutai’s success lies in the first-class 
products and services it provides to 
customers. In the future, Wuyutai will as 
always respect customers, give priority 
to quality, embarking on a new and 
ambitious journey to establish itself as 
China’s top tea company. 
---From the editor 
In Apr il 2010, Wuyutai opened 
a Chinese teahouse in the Shanghai 
World Expo Park. It was China’s only 
time-honored tea brand authorized as 
Shanghai World Expo producer and 
retailer. During 184 days, Wuyutai’s tea 
house offered well-chosen tea products 
and showcased its century-old jasmine 
tea scenting skills to World Expo visitors. 
In particular, its ten tea product varieties 
won great popularity. Through Shanghai 
World Expo, Wuyutai has become well 
known to visitors from across the world, 
gaining an excellent oppor tunity to 
access to the international market. 
Three years af ter the Shanghai 
Expo, Wuyutai recently celebrated its 
opening of a chain store in the World 
Expo Shopping Center. In fact, soon 
after the World Expo, Wuyutai realized 
the unprecedented market opportunity 
for its tea business in Shanghai. Market 
surveys indicated that Shanghai people 
also have a habit of drinking jasmine 
tea and Wuyutai’s tea products sold 
during the World Expo attracted many 
customers. In 2011, Wuyutai Shanghai 
Co., Ltd. was of ficially established. 
Through sales network building in 
shopping centers and supermarkets, 
the time-honored brand of Wuyutai has 
soon gained recognition and popularity 
in southeast China. Meanwhile, Wuyutai 
optimized its product mix and explored 
a more suitable business approach in 
Shanghai. 
Wuyutai ’s business expansion 
strategy in Shanghai coincided with the 
completion of the World Expo Shopping 
Center. It is a commercial complex 
providing cater ing, enter tainment , 
recreation and cultural ser vices to 
customers. Wuyutai immediately decided 
裕泰东方体验店茶荟馆外观北京市东城区国资委领导专程前来祝贺
走进店门，古老茶香和着时尚风情扑面而来
品茶包间典雅恬静
国际知名茶品和茶文化在这里荟萃

CHINESE AND FOREIGN FOOD 

佐茶食品精致细腻

中外美食 

孙丹威总经理和吴裕泰赴沪团队对老字号的发展充满信心
吴裕泰总经理孙丹威和裕泰东方项目负责人魏|副总兴致盎然

to settle its first tea experience store in 
this shopping center. 

On April 28, 2013, “Oriental Yutai” 
was inaugurated in World Expo Shopping 
Center, only several hundred meters 
away from the Chinese Tea House 
operated during the 2010 World Expo. 
The store’s opening ceremony highlighted 
Chinese elements, from drum players 
to lion dances, from blue-and-white 
porcelain decorations to Chinese tea 
products. Ms. Sun Danwei, president of 
Wuyutai Tea Company, said, “Wuyutai’s 
connection with Shanghai World Expo is 
truly a destiny. ” 

“The Oriental Yutai experience 
store is aimed at developing a new tea 
store operation approach and providing 
first-class tea products and lifestyle for 
modern customers, based on the fast-
growing market in Pudong New Area of 
Shanghai,” said Sun Danwei, Wuyutai’s 
president. 

The 300 -square-meter Oriental 
Yutai store reflects this time-honored 
brand’s motto of “producing best-quality 
tea and first-class tea service”. Hand


86 THE WORLD AND CHINA 

painted jasmine flowers, tea bars, tea 
appreciation rooms and tea counters, all 
are full of innovative designs. Wei Wei, 
vice present of Wuyutai who is in charge 
of the Oriental Yutai project, said, “The 
store’s design embodies three innovative 
design concepts. First, it is designed 
to provide innovative tea -drinking 
experience. The store provides top-
quality Chinese tea, three most famous 
types of black tea in the world, traditional 
Japanese matcha, and fashionable fruit 
tea and cocktail tea drinks. Second, a 
dazzling array of tea food is offered, 
including tea ice cream and tea dessert, 
in order to cater to needs of young 
customers. Third, the store’s furnishings, 
such as the tea path, the tea garden 
and wall decorations featuring hand-
painted jasmine flower patterns, as well 
as creative packing for tea products, mix 
Chinese tea culture with modern lifestyle. 
It is really a perfect place for leisure and 
high-end consumption.” 

How a local Beijing brand with 
a century-old history can integrate 
itself with the modern metropolis of 

Shanghai? In fact, Shanghai is a place 

with not only strong influence of Western 

culture but also high degree of cultural 
inclusiveness. The Oriental Yutai store 
is a perfect example to reflect this 
prominent characteristic of Shanghai. 
With pursuit of creativity and innovation, 
Wuyutai is making great efforts to reshape 
its image and embrace the greater 
international market. Sun Danwei said, 
“Shanghai has notable difference in city 
culture and customer habit, comparing 
to Beijing. But its cultural inclusiveness 
and diversity gives us confidence and 
opportunity. We need to re -shape 
and re -develop ourselves so as to 
provide new tea experience for local 
customers.” According to Sun, a new tea 
life experience store will be opened in 
Beijing soon. 

链接： 
吴裕泰茶业（上海）有限公司
地址：上海市闸北区江场三路76号809室
邮编：200436
电话：021－61409286
传真：021－36529776
裕泰东方 茶荟馆 （世博源店）
地址：上海市世博大道1368号1LM09
邮编：200126
电话：021－31190216
新浪微博：@裕泰东方世博源店 Link: 

Wuyutai Tea Co., Ltd. (Shanghai) 

Add: Room 809, 76, Jiang Chang San Lu 
Street, Zhabei District, Shanghai 
Postal code: 200436 
Tel: 021-61409286 Fax: 021-36529776 
Oriental Yutai Experience Store in World 
Expo Shopping Center 
Add: 1LM09, 1368, World Expo Avenue, 
Shanghai 
Postal code: 200126 
Tel: 021-31190216

Sina Weibo: @裕泰东方世博源店 

THE WORLD AND CHINA 87



88 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 89 
CHINESE AND FOREIGN FOOD 中外美食 
配 料： 
● 两根熟红甜菜,去皮,切成粗粒 
● 两个新鲜黄瓜,切丝
● 两颗煮熟的鸡蛋
● 100克酸奶油
● 四杯酸乳脂,黄油牛奶或天然的酸奶
● 一杯开水
● 八根新鲜茴香,切碎
● 一碟葱末
● 盐(根据口味不同,适量调放) 
国家描述: 观赏他!感受他!热爱他! 语 言:立陶宛语
首 都: 维尔纽斯
人 口: 320万
货 币: 立特
主要出口产品: 矿物燃料, 交通工具, 机械及机械器具 加
入欧盟时间: 2004年
以何闻名: 篮球,琥珀 ,啤酒
名 人: 篮球运动员阿维达斯.萨博尼斯
食谱描述： 
大多数的立陶宛神话故事都会有这样的相似的喜剧结
尾, “他们又继续享受美食、畅饮美酒... ...”立陶宛有很深远
的餐饮 文化传统,所以如果想尝遍所有的立陶宛美食, 您可要 
在立陶 宛多呆些日子哦! 
在这本烹饪手册中,我们将为您介绍的是红甜菜冷汤。立 
陶宛人每天午餐和晚餐都要喝汤,在众多的汤品中,甜菜冷汤 
是最受欢迎的夏季汤。请您尽情享用吧! 
烹调指南： 
将蛋黄压碎,放入葱末和盐搅拌,再加入黄瓜、切粹的蛋 
清、酸乳脂,酸牛奶(或者黄油牛奶,或天然酸奶),加入甜 菜和
凉白开,搅拌均匀。
在每个人的碗里,撒些茴香,在边上放上热土豆。
Slogan/Country characteristic: See it! Feel it! Love it! 
Name of country in language of origin: Lietuva 
Language(s): Lithuanian 
Capital: Vilnius 
Population (in millions): 3.2 
Currency: Litas 
Main export products: Mineral fuels, transport means, 
machinery and mechanical appliances. 
Date of entry into EU: 2004 
Famous for: Basketball, amber, great food and beer 
Famous person: Arvydas Sabonis (basketball player) 
立陶宛
甜菜根冷汤
Cold Beet Soup 
Republic of Lithuania 
Recipe description: 
The majority of Lithuanian fairy-tales have a similar happy 
ending:“and they continued eating and drinking for three days...”. 
Lithuania is very rich in food and drink traditions, so if you wish 
to taste the entirety of Lithuanian cuisine, you have to visit 
Lithuania being prepared for a lengthy stay! 
In this cookery book we are offering you a recipe of a red beet 
cold soup called Saltibarsciai. Lithuanians eat soup every day 
- for lunch and quite often for dinner as well. Saltibarsciai is the 
most popular summer soup dish. Enjoy! Gero apetito! 
Crush egg yolks with scallion greens and salt. Add cucumber, 
finely chopped egg whites, sour cream, sour milk (or butter milk, 
or natural yoghurt), beets and 1 cup of boiled but chilled water. 
Mix well. 
Serve in individual bowls sprinkled with dill. 
● 2 fresh cucumbers, finely chopped 
● 2 hard boiled eggs 
● 100 g sour cream 
● 4 cups sour milk, butter milk or natural yoghurt 
● 1 cup of boiled water 
● 8 sprigs fresh dill, finely chopped 
● 1 cup of scallion greens, finely chopped 
● salt to taste 
Tasty Europe 
Ingredients for recipe: 
● 2 cooked red beets, peeled and coarsely grated 
Recipe instructions:

90 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 91 
心脏病人的光明
A piece of exciting news was disclosed on the conference: 
The thesis and professional comments on Qili Cardiac Capsule 
were published on Journal of American College of Cardiology, 
the most authoritative journal in the Western countries on 
cardiovascular diseases and therapies. This thesis was 
completed by Professor Gao Runlin, Zhang Boli and Huang 
Jun, who are academicians of China Academy of Engineering. 
These medical experts collected 512 cases from 23 first-class 
general hospitals in China and spent 15 months to complete 
this thesis. Journal of American College of Cardiology also fully 
acknowledged the innovative invention of Qili Cardiac Capsule 
and its outstanding contribution to heart disease treatment. 
2013年7月14日由中国中西医结合学会主办,中国中西医结合
学会血管脉络病专业委员承办的首届中西医血管病学大会在北京
国际会议中心召开的 。 
一项让医学界为之振奋的消息大会上发布：由中国工程院院士
高润霖、张伯礼和黄峻教授牵头，联合23家综合三甲医院，收集
512个病例，历时15个月完成。他们研究出芪苈强心胶囊的论文及
专题评论在国际权威期刊《美国心脏病学会杂志》发表。该杂志是
西方研究心血管病及治疗药物最权威的刊物。杂志还对中药芪苈
强心胶囊的创新发明，治疗心脏病所做的贡献做了充分的肯定。
A New Hope for Heart Disease Patients 
Ma Jianzhong, Vice Director General to State Administration of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, makes an opening speech on the 
conference. 
马建中 国家中药管理局副局长 大会开幕讲话
Dr. Chen Kaixian gives a plaque to Yiling Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd. 
陈凯先院士为以岭药业授扁
Anthony Rosenzweig M.D, Director of Cardiovascular Research 
Center of Harvard Medical School and Deputy Editor-in- 
Chief of the New England Journal of Medicine, talks about the 
relationship between ventricular remodeling and heart failure. 
美国哈佛大学医学院心血管研究中心主任《新英格兰杂志》副主
编Anthony Rosenzweig M.D讲述心室重构于心力衰竭
The 1st Chinese and Western Medicine Vascular Disease 
Conference raised curtain at Beijing International Conference 
Center on July 14, 2013. This conference was sponsored by 
Chinese Association of Integrative Medicine and co-sponsored 
by the Professional Committee of Vessels and Choroid Disease, 
CAIM. 
文：Ren Yunfei 图：任云飞 

92 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 93 
FEATURE REPORT 专题报道 
在我们大多数人看来，飞行员是一项很酷的工作，他们可能早
上在巴黎，下午便抵达了悉尼。他们每天往返于世界各地，连爱情
都萌生于云端之上。
在海拨一万米的高空中与人相遇、相爱、情定终生，是多么浪
漫，多么唯美的爱情故事啊。但是，浪漫的背后，更多的却是常人无
法体会的辛酸：没有变通余地的工作制度，超强的心理压力，两地
分离的家庭生活，还有，想要孩子而不得的痛苦。
Most people might think that pilot is a cool job. They travel 
around the world and even find their love story above the air. 
What a romantic story that two persons meet and fall in love 
in the aircraft 10 thousand feet above the ground. However, how 
many people can really understand the hardships behind the 
love story: inflexible work policy, high work pressure, separated 
family life and frustration from not able to have baby. 
Long line waiting for IVF till 2020 
去生殖中心做试管，排号排到了2020年
刘明和李娜夫妻就是一个典型的飞行员家庭，夫妻二人在工作
中相爱，携手走进了婚姻殿堂。婚后，为了专心要一个孩子，妻子李
娜辞去了工作，中止了热爱的飞行事业。备孕的过程并不顺利，李
娜检查出有排卵障碍，一直吃克罗米芬促排卵。可是，大半年过去
了，李娜的肚子仍不见动静，当地的医生也不清楚原因。
夫妻二人本来就聚少离多，再加上李娜的排卵有问题，两人决
定放弃治疗，上最好的生殖中心做试管婴儿，以期在最短的时间内
怀孕。两人到生殖中心咨询后得知，该中心排队等待做试管婴儿的
患者，排号已经排到了2020年。他们若想做试管，还需要等待7年。
7年，是多么漫长而绝望的等待，两人满怀希望而去，满心失望而
归。
Liu Ming and Li Na both work for the airlines. In order 
to have a baby, Na quit the job she loves. Due to ovulatory 
dysfunction, Na had been taking medicine to stimulate 
Bab y Dream Reali zed 
at Global Care 
单角子宫患者，五洲喜获爱情“硕果” 
ovulations. Unfortunately, no success had been achieved after 
being tried for more than 6 months. 
On top of Na’s ovulation problem, Ming was rarely home 
due to his job function as a pilot. Therefore, the couple decided 
to switch to IVF to accomplish pregnancy in the shortest time 
possible. After their consultation in the local IVF center, they 
were totally hopeless since the earliest IVF treatment they could 
schedule was 2020 which indicated a 7-year wait. 
Polycystic ovarian syndrome complicated with 
severe endocrine disorder 
多囊合并严重的内分泌紊乱
再次前往当地的医院求治，一位好心的医生，向他们推荐了
《中国医学论坛报》上撰文写过相关成功案例的一位医生――五
洲妇儿医院生殖中心的周红主任。李娜带上所有的病历和检查单， 
再次随刘明的航班飞到北京，找到了五洲妇儿医院的周红主任。
在详细了解了李娜的既往病史后，周红主任为夫妻安排了系统
的检查。检查一做完，丈夫刘明就急忙赶回了工作岗位，留下李娜
等待结果。结果显示，丈夫刘明一切正常，而李娜不仅是一个多囊
患者，还合并严重的内分泌紊乱、代谢综合症。 
周红主任发现，李娜之前的治疗很不规范。吃了半年多的克
罗米芬，已经存在克米抵抗，内膜的生长也受到了抑制，达不到受
精卵着床的厚度。考虑到她家在外地，周主任为她制定了为期三个
月的治疗方案：调理内分泌，同时调整了促排卵的方案和用药。李
娜回到当地，由周红主任通过电话、短信等方式，远程指导当地的
医生为她进行各项治疗。
Polycystic ovarian syndrome complicated with severe 
endocrine disorder 
During another visit to the local hospital, a doctor referred 
them to Dr. Zhou Hong, Director of Reproductive Center at 
GlobalCare, based on a successful case Dr. Zhou published 
on a medical journal. Without any hesitation, Na took all of her 
medical records and flew to Beijing to see Dr. Zhou. 
Dr. Zhou ar ranged systemat i c 
examinations for Ming and Na af ter 
carefully reviewed Na’s medical history. 
The examination result indicated that 
Ming was absolutely fine but Na had 
polycystic ovarian syndrome complicated 
with severe endocrine disorders. 
Dr Zhou al so found t hat Na’s 
previous treatments were not regulatory. 
Taking the medicine more than 6 months 
restrained her endometrium from growing 
to the level for the implantation of the 
embryo. Based on Na’s situation, Dr. 
Zhou adjusted her medicine and ovulation 
stimulation with a 3-month treatment 
plan. Once Na went back home, Dr. Zhou 
remotely guided local doctors via phone 
calls and text messages to precede with 
the treatment plan for Na. 
Unicornuate uterus companied 
by problematic oviduct 
单角子宫，唯一正常的输卵
管也有问题
在促排三个月未怀孕后，李娜再次飞
到北京，由周主任为她安排了造影。造影检
查发现，李娜存在子宫畸型，是单角子宫。
周红主任告诉李娜，因为在发育的过程中
融合不全形成了单角子宫，因为只有一侧健
康的输卵管和卵巢，所以怀孕的机会少；因
为单角子宫空间小，也容易发生早产和晚
期流产。检查还发现，李娜的输卵管存在上
举和粘连的情况，必须行手术矫正。
李娜便住进了五洲的病房。周主任为
她安排了加急的宫腹腔镜手术。宫腹腔镜
下，进一步明确了之前的诊断，为她松解开
了输卵管的粘连。
术后回当地休养了一段时间，李娜再
次来到了北京。这一次，她决定“驻扎”在
北京，直到成功怀孕，她要求由周红主任亲
自为她进行促排卵治疗。
Unicornuate uterus companied by 
problematic oviduct 
Na flew to Beijing again after 3-month 
fruitless ef for ts. Dr. Zhou arranged 
contrast radiography for her this time. The 
result indicated that Na had unicornuate 
uterus which left Na with only one set of 
healthy ovarian and oviduct on one side. 
This uterus abnormality not only reduced 
her chances of getting pregnant but also 
increased the possibility for miscarriage 
during the early and late stages of the 
pregnancy. It was also discovered during 
the examination that Na’s oviduct had the 
issues of position change and adhesions 
which requires surgery. 
Dr. Zhou arranged the emergency 
hy s teros c opy surger y for Na and 
confirmed the diagnosis. Her oviduct 
adhesion issue was resolved during the 
procedure. 
Af ter recuperated for a while at 
home, Na came to Beijing again. She 
decided to stay in Beijing so that Dr. 
Zhou could execute the treatment plan in 
person. 
“Love fruit” harvest for the pilot 
family 
医生搭“鹊桥”，飞行员家庭
喜获爱情“硕果” 
当月的治疗过程中，又发生了一个小 
曲：接近排卵期时，丈夫刘明飞来北京陪李
娜。而当周红主任通过B超监测发现李娜
的卵泡已发育成熟，很快就会排卵时，刘明
却接到了上级通知，必须在几个小时内赶
回工作岗位，接受飞往外地的任务。
求子心切的李娜难过得哭了，刘明而对
上级的指示束手无策。周红主任也着急得
不行，如果此时两人不能“鹊桥相会”，这
一个月的努力就全部白废了。周主任赶紧
为他们出主意，让他们就近找一家旅馆，抓
紧时间“办完事”再走。两人听从了周主任
的建议。
就是这一次，李娜成功怀孕了。拿到验
血的检查单后，她抱着着周红主任，痛痛快
快地哭了一场。
李娜随后在丈夫的陪伴下回家了。九
个多月后，她在当地剖腹产下一个8斤4两
的胖儿子，刚下手术台的她，迫不及待给周
红主任打来了报喜电话，她动情地说：感谢
周红主任，让我在北京收获了爱情的“硕
果”，虽然你我相隔千里，终有一天，我会
带着孩子，坐着孩子爸爸的航班去看你，全
家人当面去向您致谢。
“Love fruit” harvest for the pilot family 
There was an “episode” during the 
treatment cycle. While Dr. Zhou identified 
through ultrasound that Na’s follicles 
were mature and ready for ovulation, 
Ming was asked to go back in several 
hours to take a fly task. 
Ming and Na were so sad and 
afraid that their whole month of effort 
will be thrown away. Dr. Zhou made a 
recommendation that they find a nearby 
hotel for the intercourse before Ming took 
off. They followed Dr. Zhou’s suggestion. 
Na made a success this time. She 
cried with Dr. Zhou after she saw the 
pregnancy test result. 
Na went back home and her son 
was born 9 months later. Right after she 
finished the c-section procedure, she 
called Dr. Zhou and released the great 
news. She was so excited to tell Dr. 
Zhou: Thank you so much for helping me 
to have a baby. Even though we live far 
away, my family will fly to Beijing one day 
to show our appreciation in person. 
周红主任

94 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 95 
The Unique Feature of 
Autografting of Cytothesis 
自体细胞移植再生技术的独特之处
自体细胞移植再生技术最独特之处是采用自己的皮肤、血液、头
发，在实验室进行成纤维细胞的分离和培育，使青春细胞的数量剧
增，结合受术者的23种自体生长因子，再回输到需修复及改善的部
位。通过自体生长因子对植入细胞的联合作用，促进提高了植入细
胞的存活率，分泌大量胶原蛋白、透明质酸和弹性纤维，增加真皮
层的厚度和密度达到嫩肤，修复皱纹和凹陷性疤痕的目的。
The Unique Feature of Autologous cells transplanting 
and regeneration is adopted autologous skin, blood and hair 
to separate and cultivate fibrocyte in the lab, that sharp risen 
quantity of youth cells, which are combined with 23 types of 
auto-growth factors from patient, then retransfuse to the needed 
and repaired parts. Through combination works from autologous 
growth factors to implantable cells that promote survival rate of 
implantable cells, secrete plenty of collagen, hyaluronic acid and 
elastic fibers and enhance thickness and density of corium layer 
to achieve purpose of repairing wrinkle and pitting scar. 
Injection One Time, Retrieve Youth 
as 8 Years Before 
一次注射，找回八年青春 
自体细胞移植再生技术只需一次注射即可见到明显效果，维持
时间长达8年以上，而且这种塑型材料无流动移位性、可塑性好、定
位准确，沿注射针道分布，手触无颗粒感，可以有效规避个体差异
问题，满意率高达99.8%。
自体细胞移植取材于自体，具有同源性，组织相容性好，没有局部
反应，可以完全代谢降解的显著优势。取自自体头发、自体血液、自
体皮肤组织，经国家GMP标准实验室培养纯化，具有安全、快速、
持久的特性。
Only one time injection that can see the effect immediately 
and it can be lasting over 8 years. The materials do not have 
flowing displacement, but good plasticity, accurate position, 
distribution along with the way of injection, no particle feeling 
while touch that avoid individual difference effectively. The rate 
of satisfaction is 99.8%. 
Autologous cells transplanting draws autologous, which 
significant strength are: homology, good tissues consistency, no 
local response and metabolize completely. It is safe, fast and 
lasting, and take from autologous hair, blood and skin tissues to 
cultivate and purify by China GMP Standard Laboratory. 
Inject “Youthful Cell”, Activate 
Youth Regeneration Power 
Patented Treatment on Autologous Cells Transplanting and Regeneration 
注入“青春细胞”，激活年轻再生力量 
专利自体细胞移植再生技术 
国际上最先进的抗衰技术，获得CE、FDA权威认证，欧美、日韩广
泛应用 
自体组织提练，经国家GMP标准实验室培养纯化，安全、快速、持
久微针30分钟治疗完成，抗衰老效果维持达八年以上
It’s the most advanc ed anti-aging technology in the international, 
gained CE and FDA authoritative certification and being used widely 
in Europe, US, Japan and Korea. 
Ref ine d a u t o ti ss u e i s c u lt u red a n d p u r if i e d b y Chi n a GM P 
Standard Laboratory, and it is safe, fast and lasting. 
Only 30 minutes to finish Microneedle Therapy, and anti- aging 
effects can be lasted over 8 year s. 
SPECIAL REPORTS 专题报道 
To Build a “Bank of Youth”, to Save “Youth Cells” 
建立“青春银行”，储存“青春细胞” 
北京五洲妇儿医院整形美容中心独家引进自体细胞移植再生技术，为
求美者及时保存青春时期的活力细胞，建立一所“青春银行”。 通过这一
专利技术，可彻底扭转细胞衰老的趋势。青春银行作为青春不老的源泉， 
在之后的任何一年龄阶段，都可以为肌肤提供青春能量。越早储存青春
细胞，越能获得更具活力的青春之源，抗衰的效果也就越显著。
Plastic surgery dept. at GlobalCare introduces Autologous cells 
transplanting and regeneration exclusively, for pursuing beauty people 
save youthful cells in time, that to build a “Bank of Youth”. Through 
patented technology, this can reverse completely trend of cells’ aging. 
“Bank of Youth” as an ageless source supplies youth power to the 
skin. No matter at which age you are, saving youth cells earlier, getting 
more energy youthful source and more anti-aging effects.

专题报道 

SPECIAL REPORTS

Which Aging Problems 
Can Be Solved by Autografting of Cytothesis

自体细胞移植再生技术能解决哪些岁月问题？

强力祛除皱纹：神奇的青春细胞和富含的二十多种生长因子，
在注入真皮浅层后，可以激发体内源源不断地产生大量弹性纤维，
胶质等，从而达到强力去皱抗衰的目的。

迅速改善肤质：注入的活性因子可加速和促进肌肤微循环的建
立，从而加速新陈代谢，全面改善肤质和肤色，令肌肤更加白皙细
腻，有光泽。

有效淡化色斑：帮助面部微循环的再建和肌肤代谢的加速，能
够促使肌肤自行排出大量毒素，有效淡化色素沉着、黄褐斑等多种
色斑。

拯救过敏肌肤：持续使用该技术进行治疗，将改变肌肤原有应
激系统，让肌肤更健康，更有活力，有效改善过敏肤质。 

Erase wrinkle puissantly: magical youth cells and more than 
20 types growth factors in it, which stimulate produce massive 
elastic fibers, collagen in the body, to achieve the purposes of 
erasing wrinkle. 

Improve skin immediately: active factors and promote 
energy to build skin microcirculation that speeding up 
metabolism, promoting skin type and color, whiten and gloss 
skin. 

Desalt splashes effectively: to rebuild microcirculation and 
speed up metabolism that expelling toxin by itself from skins to 
lighten pigment, chloasma and many other spots. 

Salving anaphylactic skin: to do this treatment continuously 
will change stress response system of skin, and make the skin 
more health and energy that to improve anaphylactic skin.

q & A:

专家美丽问答：

Q：五洲的自体细胞移植再生技术与其它形式的细胞移植技术有何
不同？
A：其它形式的细胞移植只单取皮肤作为材料，而五洲自体细胞移
植再生技术不仅取材皮肤，而且取材头发和血液，从中提取对皮肤
有更强支撑力的角蛋白和血液血清，营养物质更全面，填充和抗衰
的效果比单取材皮肤的移值技术好上一万倍。 
q: What is the distinguished of Autologous Cells 
Transplanting and Regeneration at GlobalCare with others? 
A: Some ways to do Autologous Cells Transplanting only 
take skin as material, but at GlobalCare, we would not only take 
the materials from skin, but also from hair and blood. In this 
way, the extractive keratin and blood serum have more bearing 
power, comprehensive nutriments, better effects on padding and 
anti-aging.
96 THE WORLD AND CHINA 

Specialist:

专家出镜： 


刘津 
医学博士 主任医师

北京五洲女子医院皮
肤科首席抗衰专家。德国
马尔堡（MARBURG）
大学临床医学院附属医
院客座皮肤外科医生，师
从德国皮肤外科学会主
席J. PETRES教授。在
三级甲等医院、国际医疗
诊所和医学美容国际连
锁机构从事皮肤科、皮肤
外科及医疗美容临床工作多年。中华医学会激光医学分会北京委员
会委员、连续两届当选中国光学会激光分会―北京医学专业委员
会委员。在皮肤年轻化和问题性皮肤方面具有卓越的成就，尤其在
自体细胞移植、注射除皱、瘦脸、塑形、美白、祛除斑癣、祛除红血
丝等方面具有极高的造诣。

擅长：注射除皱及瘦脸、激光除皱及美白、自体细胞移植、皮肤

年轻化、问题皮肤治疗。 

Jin Liu Doctor of Medicine Chief Physician 
Cosmetology Anti-aging Specialist; Visiting dermatologist 

at affiliated hospital of Marburg University School of Medicine in 

Germany. Protégé of Professor J.Petres, Chairman of German 
Dermatology Association. Dedicated on Dermatology, Plastic 
Surgery and Medicine Cosmetic job decades years at grade 3-A 
hospital, international clinic, and international chain of medical 
cosmetic. As a committee member of Laser Medicine Branch 
of Chinese Medical Association and he has been a committee 
member two years consecutively of Beijing Medicine Specialty in 
Laser Branch of The Chiese Optical Society. The extraordinary 
success on skin younger in age and problematic skin, especially 
on autologous cells transplanting, injection wrinkle, facial 
shaping, shaping body, whitening, removing freckles, tinea and 
red blood etc. 

Skilled: Injection wrinkle, Facial Shaping, Laser freckles 
removing, Whitening, Autografting on cells, Skin younger in age, 
Problematic skin 

更多抗衰老资讯，请拨打美丽热线： 
010-87769392 
010-67703338 
More information on anti aging, please dial: 
THE WORLD AND CHINA 97
中医针灸的瘦身之道
TradiTional Chinese mediCine 
and aCupunCTure slimming road
减肥是女人永远的主题，而一到夏天，这个话题更是火热异常，各种减肥方式琳琅满目。要苗条，更要健康，越来越多的人们更多地将关
注点投向更为健康的减肥方式，比如中医针灸减肥。 
Weight loss is an eternal theme for women, which becomes a fierce topic while summer arrives. Nowadays, more and more 
people focus on a healthier way of losing weight, such as Chinese acupuncture to lose weight. 
Stimulate inner motive force, let weight loss more healthy
激发内动力，让减肥更健康
对于很多人来说，减肥是一件简单却不容易的事。要想减肥成功，毅力很重要，方法也需要考量。说减肥简单，是指减肥方式无非就是
少吃多运动，而减肥不容易就很好理解了，有的是管不住嘴，有的是管不住腿。君不见，多少人在减肥道路上一路狂奔，能功成身退的却真
的是少之又少。
基于这一情况，针灸减肥的独特疗效就显得格外难得。针灸减肥既安全方便，又无副作用，而且还不用主动节食，减肥同时还能调养身
体，无怪乎越来越多爱美女性对其青眼独加。北京五洲妇儿医院中医科专家指出，针灸减肥主要是通过刺激人体相关穴位，调理胃肠功能、
改善和促进机体的代谢、调理内分泌功能来达到效果，是一种十分健康安全的减肥方式。一方面，针灸减肥能抑制肥胖患者亢进的食欲，减
少进食量，同时抑制患者亢进的胃肠消化吸收机能，减少机体对能量的吸收，从而减少能量的摄入；另一方面，针灸减肥还可以促进能量的
代谢，增加能量消耗，促进体内脂肪分解。摄入的少，消耗的多，身体自然就能瘦下来了。 
For many people, losing weight is a simple but not easy thing. If you want to lose weight, perseverance is important, method also 
requires consideration. On one side, losing weight is just as simple as eating less and exercising more; but on the other side, it’s hard 
to achieve since the control of mouth or legs is challenging. So many people are running all the way on the path to losing weight, but 
only a few make a success at the end. 
Based on this information, unique effect of acupuncture weight loss is especially hard to come by. Acupuncture weight loss is safe 
and convenient with no side effects. It doesn’t require dieting either. It is not surprising that it becomes attractive to more and more 
women due to its health preservation feature. TCM expert at Globalcare Women & Children’s Hospital pointed out that acupuncture 
helps weight mainly through stimulation to the acupuncture points, adjustment to the gastrointestinal function, improvement and 
enhancement to the body's metabolism, and regulation of endocrine function. It is a healthy and safe way to lose weight. 
On one hand, acupuncture weight loss suppresses appetite of obese patients to reduce food intake, at the same time inhibiting 

gastrointestinal absorption function of the Who is the best target for 的减肥效果更好。 
patients to reduce energy intake; on the acupuncture weight loss?Obese people between age of 20 
other hand, acupuncture weight loss can 针灸减肥最适宜人群: and 50 
promote energy metabolism, increase At this age, the human development 


energy consumption, and promote 20～50岁的中青年肥胖者is mature with various functions relatively loss effect is better than winter. patient can practically feel the previously decomposition of body fat. As a result, 
因为在这个年龄阶段，人体发育已经成perfect. Obesity is mainly driven by Acupuncture is to stimulate acupuncture robust appetite declined, without dieting, eating less and consuming more will help 
熟，各种功能也比较健全，肥胖多因饮食不
improper diet (such as overeating), points, stimulates the inner adjustment Reasonable diets can achieve a slimming 

the body to slim down. insufficient physical activity, and 

function, from the perspective of effect. 

当（如暴饮暴食）、运动不足、内分泌失调endocrine disorders, etc. Acupuncture traditional Chinese medicine, spring and 
等而导致，对此问题，针灸治疗可有效解treatment can be an effective way of summer sun be the spirit from the body safe without side effects, adapt to 
决。针灸能够有效调整机体的各种代谢功solving these issues by adjusting the of evaporation to the surface, it is easy to the crowd-Canton 
能，促进脂肪分解，达到减肥降脂的效果。body 's metabolism and promoting stimulate, the metabolism of human body 

adipose decomposition. 

function is strong, so the effect reducing Regulation of acupuncture to lose 
单纯性肥胖者Simple obesity 
weight is better in spring and summer weight is through a system of channels 
单纯性肥胖是由于摄入过多代谢过少而引Simple obesity is due to excessive 
season. and collaterals, mobilization of internal 
发的。大部分的肥胖患者都属于单纯性肥intake and insufficient metabolism. Most 
control functions of human body, promote 
胖，针灸减肥能有效纠正异常的食欲，减少of the obese people belong to simple 
The unique advantages of acupuncture metabolism and balance, so as to 

weight lossrealize the weight loss. No surgery, no 
能量的摄入，同时促进机体脂肪代谢，消obesity. Acupuncture weight loss works 
针灸减肥的独特优势meds, safer, more reliable, the human 

耗积存的脂肪，因此对单纯性肥胖者疗effectively on this type of obesity since body does not produce side effects, is 

效显著。
it can correct the abnormal appetite, 
无需主动节食，不反弹a healthy way to lose weight safely and 
身体局部肥胖者
reduce energy intake, and promote the stably.Long-term weight loss is not valid 

指导专家
李巍 副教授 副主任医师
body's fat metabolism to consume stored 针灸减肥不强调过分地控制饮食，特别不
persons,the drugs to lose weight losers 北京五洲妇儿医院中医科主任。医学硕士。
针灸不仅能取得整体减肥的效果，而fat. 主张采取“饥饿疗法”。临床数据证明，经is especially suitable for acupuncture 从事中医临床教学、教研工作30余年。主

且能消除局部脂肪达到局部减肥的过针灸治疗后，患者能切实地感受到原先weight loss.. 治女性疾病，如乳腺增生、乳腺炎、泌乳不
目的。局部肥胖者可通过对特别Partial body obesity 旺盛的食欲有所下降，无需节食，合理饮食

穴位施针，促进能量代谢，达Acupuncture is not only able to No pain,weight loss effect is obvious 
足、月经不调、闭经、痛经、慢性盆腔炎、更
achieve overall slimming effect but also 即可达到瘦身效果。
Acupuncture weight loss is use silver 
年期综合症、人流术后综合症、产后综合
到局部消脂瘦身的目的。
can eliminate fat on a certain part of 安全无副作用，适应人群广
needle directly in subcutaneous stimulate 症、肝郁证、亚健康及神经系统和消化系

如针刺血海穴可调理the body. For local obesity, needles can 针灸减肥是通过经络系统的调整作用，调统等各种疾病。并擅长中药、针灸、火罐等
腿部肥胖，肩贞穴和be applied to specific acupoint in order 动人体内在的调节功能，促进新陈代谢达
acupuncture points, Acupuncture is 
臂穴可以调理手臂to promote energy metabolism and 到平衡，进而实现减肥。不动手术，不吃
no sense of pain, Acupoint stimulation 传统疗法综合调节神经及内分泌，疗效显

肥胖，而由于腹部是脾achieve the purpose of localized cellulite 
appear acid, hemp, expansion, heavy， 著。 
slimming. For example, acupuncture at 
药，更加安全、可靠，对人体不产生副作Generally one period of treatment can 
Panel Specialist 

经、胃经之处，因此针灸对
xuehai treats leg fat while that at jianzhen 用，是一种安全稳定的健康减肥方法。长期lose weight 5 ~ 15 kg. 
Li. Wei Deputy Chief Physician Associ 腹部的减肥效果尤为显著。
and binao treats arm fat. Because the 减肥无效、药物减肥失败者特别适用于针ate Professor 
青春期、产后、更年期肥胖女abdomen holds the meridians of spleen 灸减肥，
To lose weight at the same time 

性and stomach, the effect of abdominal 无痛感，减肥效果明显
regulates body endocrine 
Dr. Li is the Director of the Departme 
在这几个阶段，女性内分泌acupuncture weight loss is particularly 针灸减肥是以银针直接扎在皮下刺激穴Through the acupuncture to stimulate nt of Traditional Chinese Medicine. She 

处于改变非常剧烈的时候，容significant. 位。针灸时无疼痛感，而是穴位受到刺激后acupuncture points, not only can has been working in the clinical, educati 
易因此引发肥胖的问题。针灸出现的酸、麻、胀、重的感觉，一般一疗程accelerate the decomposition of body fat, onal and research fields of TCM for over 
能有效改善内分泌紊乱的问
Puberty, After childbirth, Obese still can regulate endocrine function, At 30 years. Dr. Li is specialized in treating 

women of menopause 可以减重5~15斤。
the same time of weight loss, also can various diseases of women, including hy 
题，使内分泌趋于正常，达到减减肥同时调节身体内分泌
collaterals, chang qi and blood, beauty perplasia of mammary glands, mastitis, 

肥目的。很多伴有月经不调、闭In this stages, female endocrine 通过针灸刺激穴位，不但能加速身体脂肪to raise colour, effectively relieve fatty agalactosis, menoxenia, amenorrhea, dy 
经等症状的女性，往往在针灸实is changing sharply, therefore cause 分解，还可调节身体内分泌机能，在减肥liver, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, heart smenorrheal, chronic pelvic inflammator 

现减肥的同时，原来的病症也会obesity problem easily. Acupuncture 的同时，还能通经活络、调畅气血、美容养disease, menopausal syndrome, chronic y disease, involution syndrome, postabo 
得以治疗。can effectively improve the endocrine rtion syndrome, puerperium syndrome, i 

disorder, lead to the normal endocrine, 颜，有效缓解脂肪肝、高血压、高脂血症、diseases such as endocrine disorder 
ntrahepatic cholestasis, subhealth and o 另外，针灸减肥的效果还与季节、
to achieve weight loss. Many women 心脏病、更年期综合症、内分泌失调等慢性symptoms. 
ther diseases of nervous and digestive s 

气候相关，通常春夏减肥的效果with menstruation to be not moved, 疾病的症状。 ystems. Dr. Li is an expert in the effecti 
要比秋冬更好。针灸本来就是amenorrhea and so on symptoms, often ve regulation of nerve and endocrine thr 
刺激穴位，激发内在的调节机achieved with acupuncture to lose weight No dieting, No rebound ough Chinese medicine, acupuncture an 
能，从中医来看，春夏天阳气at the same time, the original illness will Acupuncture weight loss diet not d moxibustion, and cupping therapy. Dr. 
从体内蒸发到体表，很容易also be treated. overstated, particularly advocated a Li advocates the health philosophy of “P 
激发，人体的新陈代谢机能
In addition, the effect of acupuncture "starvation diet". Clinical data prove reservation, Prevention, and Antiaging”. 
比较旺盛，因而在春夏时节
weight loss associated with season, that, after acupuncture treatment, the She published multiple papers and comp 

climate, usually spring summer weight iled medical books. 

98 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 99 


100 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 101 
FEATURE REPORT 专题报道 
80 
80

102 THE WORLD AND CHINA THE WORLD AND CHINA 103 
http://www.taiwan-restaurant.hu 
订购电话：010-57280279 
香港生活秀科技集团股份有限公司系列产品 
2011年，RO净水器的销量达到295万台，如果这295万台RO直饮机进入寻常百姓
家，按照每户每天用水10升，在净化水过程中，3-5倍的废水排放计算，每年需排放废水
3186万吨-5310万吨，经济损失将达到1.18亿-1.97亿元人民币以上。” 
网址：www.hklifeshow.com

104 THE WORLD AND CHINA 


